foreign
[Music]
let's begin guys let's begin
rankford airport we are underway
okay
ladies and gentlemen this is our fourth
speedrun for those watching on YouTube
the premise of this speedrun is going to
be a focus on openings
we are going to I'm going to play the
openings that I officially recommend to
the majority of players beginner and
intermediate throughout the speeder and
I will stick to the same openings and in
our game analysis we're going to focus
more heavily on
opening Theory and developing the
recommended repertoire I will be making
opening mistakes but in every game we
are going to put the accent on making
sure that we are developing our opening
knowledge
and against the French as those of you
who watched previous speedruns know I
recommend the nimsovich French that's
the official name
for the first 10 15 games we're going to
get almost no opening Theory and that in
and of itself is all is also very
instructive because if you're a beginner
watching this you should know how to
punish typical openings that beginners
play even if they're not theoretical so
already the move Knight C6 is a
non-theoretical move it's obviously not
the the main move the main move is is D5
but it's important already at the outset
let me just enable arrows it's important
already at the outset to avoid assuming
that just because a move like Knight C6
is played you're you're somehow like
already winning against most of these
you know random developing moves you
want to just respond by developing your
pieces of course D5 is possible but we
don't have any of our pieces developed
yet I think D5 is a little bit too
concrete I think the simplest is just to
continue our development with Knight F3
and when we get more pieces out we'll
start contemplating moves like D5 or E5
in response to Knight F6 actually E5
might be more reasonable
so our opponent is thinking D6 all right
and again a passive setup by our
opponent but nothing egregiously bad
okay and we have many ways that that we
can quote-unquote punish such a setup
the most simple move is Knight C3 some
of you are thinking let's control more
of the center with the move C4 also a
totally reasonable move it depends on
your taste some people like a greater
share of the center some people like
more of an emphasis on peace development
since we're playing 1e4 I think it's
more in the spirit of E4 openings to not
play C4 when you play C4 that's almost
like playing one D4 and 2c4 we're gonna
play this as absolutely primitively as
possible just go Knight C3 okay our
opponent basically pre-moves Knight F6
as you might know in such positions I
like for the bishop to come out to D3
the reason I like the D3 square is
it does a couple of things it reinforces
upon an E4 but also when black Castle's
King side we can push this Pawn out to
E5 and the bishop is going to be aiming
at the H7 Pawn now if you're kind of
newer to chess you might say well okay I
can see that
but isn't that pawn and now that square
going to be protected well it is going
to be protected by by the black kick
from GA but there's a typical idea where
uh that's called a battery where the
bishop remains on D3 and the queen later
travels to the E4 Square now if you can
visualize that in your head Bishop on E3
Queen on e4 when black is castled
kingside these two pieces are aiming at
the H7 square and that is a major mate
threat so even though black has removed
the pawn from H6 it doesn't mean the
black has fixed a problem on the
underlying Square so don't confuse
there's like two separate things there's
weak pawns but even if a pawn moves away
the square itself might also be valuable
as it is here
okay so we should continue our
development and we should do so just by
by castling kingside I mean we're making
the most standard developing moves of
magical we're not afraid of the move
Knight to B4
90 before is a sort of it's not even a
threat but we can always move the bishop
back and then chase the Knight away with
A3
okay B6
so at this point the move what what
strikes me about the move B6 is that our
opponent is not taking care of of his or
her kingside development right the
bishop remains on f8
and
you know they're not even moving their
Bishop out to D7 and this just seems to
be something that we we can try to
punish now I say this word punish and
I'll say this word a lot as we climb the
sort of initial ranks what does it mean
to punish slow development or bad
development in the opening well
generally what you should associate that
word with is opening up the center when
you open up the center you open up files
and you open up direct Pathways not only
to your opponent's king but mostly
mostly it's your opponents King and also
to your opponents loose loose pieces
so a lot of you might be tempted by the
move Bishop B5 here painting the Knight
now that the Knight is unprotected but
how is black going to defend against
Bishop B5
and a question geared more to our newer
players who should be not afraid to
contribute in the chat it's okay to make
mistakes that's the point of the speed
run
uh to make typical mistakes and discuss
them
so what happens after Bishop B5
so you might think ah I read about this
move this is called a fianchetto that's
where you open up a little square for
your Bishop but Bishop B7 is a mistake
after Bishop B5 because the Knight is
going to be pinned we can advance the
pawn to D5 I'll show this after the game
and the Knight on C6 is lost
so after Bishop B5 can you defend the
Knight and simultaneously unpin it you
can you can bring the bishop out to D7
it turns out that the move Bishop B5 is
then kind of a waste of a tempo let's
refrain from that move and let's instead
focus on opening up the center
when black pushes these pawns to D6 and
E6 he creates Hooks and a hook is kind
of a pawn that you can use as Dynamite
you can advance your own Pawn up to a
certain square and it creates the effect
of dynamiting the center it forces your
opponent to either trade opening up a
file or allow you to trade for their
Pawn either way the Center opens up the
king is weakened so what move resembles
that kind of dynamiting operation
there's actually two moves that get the
job done but only one of them opens up
the file that we really want to open
which is the e-file
yeah let's go D5
and this is a super typical operation
this is the process of opening up the
center
if black plays e takes D5 we have two
Defenders on the Square black has two
attackers this move is safe even if it
was a pawn sacrifice we'd still play it
because this e-file is the pathway the
direct Pathway to Black's King and this
is why it's so important to Castle early
okay we obviously take back with the
pawn and we have achieved a major step
toward winning this game and I'll
explain after the game like why I knew
to play D5 and not E5 but for now let's
continue night before now we sort of
need to conceptualize our objective here
so our primary objective is is to keep
Black's King locked in the center
the worst case scenario is to allow
black to play Bishop out to E7 and
Castle kingside not that that
necessarily solves all of Black's
problems but ideally we would like to
keep Black's King confined to the center
it's hard to shoot at a moving Target
and if the king escapes to the king side
it's going to be much harder to set up
the attack we'll have to start from
Square zero
okay so how do we prevent black from
castling it seems inevitable that Bishop
E7 is going to happen and Bishop E7 is
inevitable we can't prevent that move
what we can say is okay we can put the
Rook on E1 that's a check Bishop will
come out to E7 the bishop is pinned and
then we just apply more pressure on the
bishop and by doing so we force black
skin to remain in the center as a
Defender
so how do we do that well we play rookie
one check and then we put the queen on
E2 we create another battery we stack
these two pieces and we aim putting
pressure on the bishop but before we do
that let's throw in the move Bishop B5
check just so that
we don't have to deal with a headache of
this trade I also like our light squared
Bishop I think it's a valuable piece
because it's controlling and pressuring
all of these weak light squares
that have been weakened with the move B6
and even if you're newer to the game you
should kind of intuitively understand
what that means right the move B6
literally creates holes all over the
queen side and so it's worth preserving
the light squid Bishop well now we need
to follow through on our plan but we
need to be very
precise in how we accomplish it and now
that I'm thinking about this situation
more soberly I realize that we can
basically win a piece
and the way that we can win a piece I'll
make the first move without explaining
the first move is just to grab on D7
Black's best move is actually King takes
D7 I don't see anybody making this move
essentially under 2000 yeah Queen takes
D7
and how did I see that what did I see
the E file being open is not the only
thing that I notice there's also the
question of this Knight on B4 you might
look at this and say okay well there's
an item before why is it so interesting
but Knight on B4 is incredibly
vulnerable because minor pieces that are
just sort of sitting on your side of the
board are vulnerable to attacks by Pawns
and you should have this instinct to
push the Knight away
with the move A3 and you should want to
do that regardless of what your
follow-up is but you'll notice that the
Knight has to go back to A6 I mean it
can take the pawn but then white like
loses the Knight and after the night
goes back to Asics one of the most
important acronyms that I've shared in
previous speed runs and I will try not
to repeat myself too many times I'm
assuming that you have seen the previous
speed runs lpdo loose pieces drop off
pieces that are not defended by any
pawns or any other pieces are massive
liabilities and when you combine a loose
piece with a wide open King you get a
double attack or a fork the king can be
checked and the loose piece can be
simultaneously attacked I've already
pointed out the correct move in another
context now you should see that the
night is weak the king is exposed that's
Fork Central and a ready-made Fork
exists with Queen E2 check forget the
e-file instead we just win the Knight on
A6 and we will be up a full piece notice
the sort of flexibility in my thinking I
was starting out by contemplating how to
prevent black from castling as I was
doing that I noticed that there's this
one check and there's Queen E2 check
both moves operating down the E file but
I also noticed a second flaw in Black's
position the fact that the night on
before was incredibly vulnerable and
those two observations led me to find
the fork and we won the Knight and we
essentially when the game were up a full
piece we have let black Castle though so
there's a downside but it was worth it
was worth winning the piece
once again when you win a piece from a
very general standpoint there are
there are sort of two ways to convert a
material advantage now this is also
something I've talked about at length
the typical prescribed method is to
simplify the logic behind that is that
the more pieces you trade
the more
the more tangible your material
advantage is going to be I think the
analogy that I've made previously is if
you consider a soccer game where a
player gets a red card it's 11 men on
ten
and somebody comes along and says let's
just remove 10 players from the soccer
field you're just going to get a one on
zero if you're up at night and you move
remove all the other pieces on the board
and just leave pawns the night is going
to be
you know a total you're gonna have a
monopoly on the board if you have only
one minor piece that minor piece
dominates
in the Kingdom of the blind the one-eyed
man
uh in the world of of the blind the
one-eyed man is king So
that's the logic behind simplifying and
if we wanted to simplify we could graph
the pawn on P5 with the queen pinning
the queens and trading the Queens let's
start out since this is our first game
by playing as simply as possible we're
gonna play Queen takes B5 that's not
what I would do in a classical game if I
had this with white I would keep the
Queens on the board that is a faster
winning mechanism we want to lay the
groundwork properly and we're just going
to start by playing simple chess nothing
wrong with Queen takes B5 if you're
watching this on YouTube and you're like
these explanations are super long-winded
I get it but please understand that this
is the first game I have a lot of
groundwork delay I want to bring people
up to speed who haven't seen previous
speed runs and remember that my
explanations my level of explanations
are largely tailored to where we're at
in the speed run so you're just gonna
have to be patient if you're a stronger
player okay C6 is just a terrible move
because we have two attackers on that
square and only one Defender we can take
with either piece
we can take with a pawn that is
I mean that is that is the move that I
would play in a real game
but of course let's adhere to our
strategy and let's take back with a
queen
we're going to stick to the strategy of
forcing simplification just because I
want to show you how that kind of works
and and why it's so much simpler to win
positions when the Queens are sort of
off the board
so Queen takes C6
is very nice Russian school yeah this is
like okay those pieces you know if you
win simple chess
this is not how you paint pictures but
this is definitely how you win games
yeah and of course if our opponent
castles then we will take his Queen
Queen C6 we play DC
and then we defend that pawn potentially
with the move Knight F3 to D4
Rook CF okay so obviously we trade
and now we haven't completed our
development yet
as it is just because the Queens are off
the board does it mean that simple
principles go out the window we have a
bishop on C1 that Bishop hasn't isn't
out yet where should we put it well I'm
seeing that the pod on A7 is undefended
so we have a a very natural developing
move just like Bishop E3 attacking the
pawn that gains the tempo
yeah Bishop E3 is definitely better than
the alternative Bishop F4 biting on
granite stares it upon this well
defended Bishop D2 is just passive so
Bishop B3 makes the most sense
and
it's important to be patient when you're
converting even vast material advantages
chess is this weird thing where you can
be up like a piece or a rook and it you
won't be able to Checkmate in the next
like five moves you'll have to slowly
and gradually accumulate your advantages
until at one point you win more material
or something just gives so many ways we
can do this what I wouldn't play is
Knight B5 that's impulsive that's
rushing it you're giving up the C2 bot
and you're letting black get active so
you might say ah well let's play Rook a
to C1 and protect the pawn so that we
prepare Knight B5 but that's bad for two
reasons it's a bad use of resources you
don't want to use a whole Rook for the
small task of protecting a poem the
second thing is that you're telegraphing
your past it's like in basketball you're
holding the ball over your head you're
showing you're looking at who you're
about to pass it to Rook ac1 gives black
ample time to protect against Knight B5
the other Road could come out to B8
a much more efficient and multi-faceted
way of doing the same thing is to bring
this Knight over to D4 as many of you
are suggesting very good 94 is just a
nice solid move it centralizes the
Knight the knights controlling more
squares we're threatening to travel to
B5 with this Knight keeping the other
night for the purpose of protecting D5
we can also aim for the C6 Square that's
called an outpost an outpost is a square
deep in your opponent's territory that
is protected by a pawn and generally an
outpost is considered unassailable the
piece on an outpost cannot be kicked
Away by any of your opponent's pawns it
can still be traded off the board by one
of your opponent's minor pieces
but there are no pawns that could have
sail the Knight on C6 okay okay this is
a good move
and of course if we push our Pawn to B4
we blunder the Knight on C3 the pawn is
defending the Knight so here we could
play Knight D to B5
but blackstruck slides over to B7
and then the Knight will be under Fire
so the simplest is just a player okay if
you want if you're attentive you'll say
wait a second didn't you just say
that this is not a very good use of your
resources but nothing I say is the Dogma
here it's just sort of a necessity like
we have to play Rook AP1 but this is not
a permanent State of Affairs we're doing
this just to protect the pawn we might
go Knight C6 on the next move and we
might attack the black Rook on B8
okay so here it's all purely academic we
are up a piece so violating these basic
principle doesn't really matter we're
going to win this game one way or the
other
hopefully I'm making sense and as you're
initiating your chest Journey
you have to understand that chess is
this very interesting interplay between
these general rules that you're supposed
to follow as you're starting out like
don't do this do this instead
this is how you develop your pieces this
is how you position your pawns and you
just have to understand that these are
General guiding principles but they are
very frequently violated and the better
you become the more you realize when
they should be violated
when you're a beginner you should mostly
adhere to principles but you should just
understand conceptually even if you
don't understand it like concretely that
often principles should be violated in
certain types of Physicians yeah this is
a free rook so the bishop aims at The
Rook this is called an x-ray an x-ray is
when one of your pieces stares at your
one of one of your opponent's pieces and
there's a piece between them it can be
your piece it can be your opponent's
piece next Ray is just sort of a general
term but an x-ray is tightly associated
with what's called a discovered attack
so imagine that scenario you have one of
your pieces a bishop it's aiming at one
of your opponent's pieces a rook
normally more valuable there's a piece
in the middle the knife so the logic is
that the Knight can move out of the way
that's called a discovered attack and
where should that hypothetical knight
move well it would be nice if the Knight
could move onto a square such that the
Knight itself also creates a threat then
we have the threat of the bishop against
the rook and we have the effect posed by
the piece that's moving away the Knight
we couple that with the fact that we
already know where the Knight belongs it
belongs in the C6 square right all of
those things come together now you might
say well I just broke this down and
belabored a very simple Point yeah
that's because your your pattern
recognition is already the neurons are
firing and you see this move immediately
if you're newer to chess this is a move
which can be arrived at through pure
logic but you might not necessarily see
it straight away if you're newer to
chess you should focus on noticing
x-rays between your pieces and your
opponent's valuable pieces anytime a
queen stands in the diagonal of one of
your Bishops anytime a rook does the
same
anytime one of your Rooks x-ray is one
of your opponent's Queens those are
precursors to simple tactics
you know even though you're not going to
see a lot of stuff when you're starting
out you can at least begin to notice
Things based on like a checklist right
that's it's not hard to notice stuff
when you already know it's a look for a
rook takes D5 okay this is total
collapse
now obviously we have some order of
operations questions Knight takes D5 as
possible but we should start by taking
the other Rook because that's a check
and that's just a free rook and then
we're going to take the The Rook on D5
quaternion says there's no openings at
400 ELO that's not true
we're not going to talk opening theory
for the first couple hundred points that
extensively but we are going to talk
opening Concepts
and ways of punishing bad openings okay
so now we're up to Rooks and I can kind
of stop compensating but I'm not going
to there's no reason not to take another
Pawn on A7 that's just a free Pawn
and as I've said many times the simplest
way to convert a position like this
where you're up like in a holy amount of
material is actually just to make
another queen just push your past bonds
right rather than using your two Rooks
to try to Checkmate the black king the
problem is that there are other minor
pieces on the board okay here there's an
exception to the rule again
we see a small tactical pattern there's
a king there's a piece that's behind the
king that is asking to be skewered and
of course there's an easy skewer with
Rook fe1 check notice that the Knight is
protecting the D7 Square just because
you're up a ton of material doesn't mean
you shouldn't take more free pieces
yeah our opponent is sadly is investing
too much time in this defensive effort
but obviously the game is over
okay 94. our opponent is giving away all
of all their pieces
okay King F6 what should we do now who
can tell me there's at least two moves
that win the bishop another construction
that you should be noticing early and
often is anytime a king defends a piece
and a king is the only Defender
that is an incredibly unstable situation
because the king can be checked and when
it's checked it must move by rule
so Knight t7 is indeed the simplest move
we disattached the king from the bishop
the other way to do it of course is
Bishop D4 check these moves accomplish
exactly the same thing
forcing the king to move and winning the
bishop that's why I outlined
these uh two designations type one and
type 2 undefended pieces
type one undefended piece is a piece
that is not protected by any other
pieces or ponson again the simplest
tough is just to push your pawn and
create a queen right a queen is by far
the fastest piece with which it'll over
Checkmate you can do it with your Rooks
and stuff but this is even faster
a type 1 undefender piece is a piece
that's not protected by any other pieces
or pawns we'll talk about that type two
undefender pieces a piece
that is only protected by one other
piece
so if a piece is protected even by one
Pawn it's considered fully defended
but if a bishop is defended only by the
king it's a type 2 undefended piece
and type 2 undefended pieces are often
overlooked by
easy tiger
they have 200 pieces are overlooked
frequently by by players because they
assume that oh that piece is defended
but if a piece is only one Defender that
Defender can be dislodged it can be
attacked it can be deflected and
distracted and then the type 2
undefended piece becomes a fully
undefended piece
so again you might be looking at this
and saying well this is overkill I'm
like really over explaining everything
this is incredibly obnoxious
but remember again we are laying the
groundwork
and when we lay it carefully I'll be
able to refer to these Concepts later
when they actually matter against
stronger players okay here I'm not
commenting because I'm just taking stuff
and delivering checkmate
yeah let's take the Pod and queen queen
G4 is made of the next move
okay great
all right so our first speedrun game
folks is in the books
congratulations everybody on
celebrating this momentous occasion with
me
so a quick look
a quick look at the game
of course Knight C6 already is
the deviation from the theory this is
what's called the French defense
and in the French the idea of E6 is to
support the move D5
this is the cousin to the Karo Khan
that's C6 and D5
if you've watched chess for any amount
of time you've seen one probably both of
these openings
and we'll talk about the French
separately when we face it for the next
time Knight C6 is not a great move
because black is kind of mixing two
opening strategies right if you're
bringing your night out to C6 well it's
much better to then control a more a
bigger share of the center with the
movie five
I have three Knight C6 this is of course
the main opening in chess to play E6 and
Knight C6 just gives up a bunch of
Center that Knight on C6 is incredibly
vulnerable to the move D5 later on in
the game
so we continue with simple development
Knight F3
D6
and Knight C3 continuing simple
development there are many many ways to
cement the advantage here a lot of you
pointed out pointed out C4
getting a bigger share of the center and
making D5 even more likely totally
possible as well but we decided to play
this more primitively
it also blocks the C button yeah you
often see black pushing the pawn up to
C5 as he does In the Sicilian to contest
White Center
so black has given up full control over
the center and blocked in his Bishops
it's just incredibly passive that's
that's the best word to describe Black's
opening Play It's passive okay so Knight
F6 and now Bishop D3 which I explained
during the game
and just to show you a hypothetical
let's say black plays Bishop B7 which
would have been the proper move castles
castles the point of putting the bishop
on D3 is eventually we will play the
move E5
and this is I think somebody mentioned I
never know whether to play D5 or E5 will
hear we play E5 for a very specific
reason we open up the bishop
you might say okay
well there's gonna be a trade on E5
let's say black drops then I'm back to
D7
now I pointed out that the bishop alone
is not that impressive of a piece but
combine it with a queen on e4 and you
already have a main thread against stage
seven and you might say well okay but
black could defend against that main
threat that's true but if black defends
against that main thread pushing a pawn
in front of your king creates weaknesses
those weaknesses can be occupied by
other pieces you can already see the
attack kind of unfolding but this is a
very sort of straightforward idea that
you should keep in mind now there are
modifications that you can make you can
start with the move Queen E2 this is
where we get into kind of finesse and
subtlety for bearing E5 when do you play
stuff immediately when do you prepare it
one of the biggest questions in chess
but hopefully this makes sense H6 is
another media subpar move and B6 really
I would say this maybe even the decisive
mistake like after D5 I already think
black is all on the cusp of being lost
of course the correct approach for black
would have been to urgently urgently
complete the kingside development
yeah so D5 is is crushing
ede
now a question for the more advanced
players
um how should black
respond here because night before
essentially loses a piece
where should the Knight actually go if
you're trying to salvage this with black
yeah suddenly people perk up because
this isn't that an easy question now I'm
not checking the engine I'm giving you
my opinion very very interesting because
most of you are saying what I actually
think is wrong
so most of you are saying 97 but how are
you actually going to untangle after
rookie one
how do you guys plan to like get your
king side out
I don't see a wave black is totally
paralyzed if you find Keto
I mean I'm gonna put my queen on E2
I will let you feel ghetto but how are
you ever going to Castle in this
situation I'm aiming at your knight on
E7
and let me let me do you let me one-up
you the Knight will go from D4 and I'm
threatening to jump into C6 using the
pin of the night so
maybe you can survive with the move King
f8 in the nick of time getting the gang
away this is what option
but my instinct with black is actually
to put the Knight on E5
and I think the reason this goes against
the Instinct of most players
is that they see that the work can go to
E1 and they see that the Knight is
attacked two different times it can
hardly be defended but my instincts with
black would be just to give the pawn
away Chuck the pawn but focus on the
kingside development so what move am I
implying here
what what is the professional approach
toward ensuring that you're going to
live to fight another day with black
yeah Bishop B7 yeah this is a move a lot
of people just would reject outright
Bishop B7
but this is the GM approach you you say
okay I'll let you have my Pawn
this is not a good thing black is worse
obviously but at least that gets a
castle and the next move you're going to
slide the bishop over to D6 and attack
The Rook
and the other Bishop can come out to be
seven
so already very early on you should
understand the chess is about priorities
right you have a situation you made a
mistake at this point your priority is
to Castle kingside and it's worth giving
up a pawn in order to achieve that 95 is
like a temporary move that puts a it's
like when when you put a uh cabinet or
something against the door to prevent
the door from being broken so you can
run away
the door is going to be
busted open but it's going to give you
just enough time to run away through the
tunnel
and by the way Bishop B5 check not scary
because of Bishop D7
okay
so no Knight B8 I mean might be at the
same thing rookie one check Bishop B7
Queen E2 and again it's the same problem
there's nothing on the e-file so you're
never going to be able to Castle here
and that doesn't mean the game ends but
just and this is just so ugly black is
zero prospects here I mean also because
the C6 square is such a weakness
Knight bd7 ic6 is game over and if you
play Bishop B7
then I go the other way and again the
bishop on E7 is simply trapped
so
yeah so I think Knight E5 might be
really the only feasible move here but
Knight B4 Bishop B5 check
Bishop D7 we take it and this is all
part of the same idea we're threatening
A3 and queen E2 with the fork so black
had to play King takes D7
the last chance to survive
with the point that now queenie2 is no
longer a fork and the Knight can move
away this is still a terrible position
for my terrible position
and if you want to borrow a page from
Wesley so's book against Hikaru nakawora
in such situations
it is often very worthwhile to play the
move before
in order to restrict the Knight this is
the concept of restriction
this is a very simple concept that you
can even learn as a beginner you use
your Bots to control important squares
how do you know they're important well
it's the only score that the Knight can
move to that's not the pathetic B8
Square
that is fully restricted we can continue
our development and this is a horrendous
position losing objectively losing
objectively losing but after Queen D7
yeah we play A3
and then we pick up the Knight
and then we end the game
and the rest of the game is is very
straightforward
I'm sure we'll get more of a chance to
talk about conversion but
the important points here we got Knight
D4 is a nice move to get the Knight into
the center
Rook a B1 not being afraid to make these
moves that don't look pretty but do a
lot right we're just defending our Pawn
and it's important not to give the spawn
away
and then Knight C6 noticing the
discovery
and winning both Rooks and taking the
pawn and then converting easily by
promoting to a queen
and that's that's basically it that's
our first Speed Run game a simple game
our opponent played pretty well for for
his reigning and I hope you guys enjoyed
so once again those watching on YouTube
this was the first game of the fourth
speedrun the emphasis in the speedrun is
going to be on openings
we're going to talk at length about my
opening recommendations I'm going to
play the same stuff every game I'm going
to play E4 with white King's Indian with
black against D4 accelerated Dragon just
like in the first speed on black against
E4 backed by popular demand
I'm going to lay out all of my
recommendations against all the openings
we face and when we climb a little bit
higher maybe to 800 900 we will start
analyzing concrete openings and
developing Theory but that folks this is
going to be out on YouTube
hopefully the reception will be good I
know the audio is scuffed I'm in Toronto
still
the next speed on game will be from a
better location
but for now guys I am going to sign off
hope you enjoyed thanks to everybody for
hanging out appreciate the support in
the meantime see you guys
[Music]
foreign
