foreign
[Music]
and I'm actually getting a challenge
from a 1600 and Eco so I'm going to
accept that challenge since you know
1600 is
in the range that we normally play
anyway and we are going to get started
we have the white pieces and one E4 C6
okay well what's funny is that we Face
the Karo Khan in the last Speed Run game
uh against the strongest opponent of all
time and peoples and civilizations and
we're going to repeat the fantasy well
we faced the Karo Khan ones the fantasy
is my official recommendation
I really think that if you're looking
for a fun line with white against the
Cairo the fantasy Takes the Cake by a
country mile what I didn't do in the
previous video is give you sort of a
general overview of the fantasy and show
you some Theory because we were too
focused on checking our opponent's play
and talking about the latter stages of
the game
uh in this video assuming the game goes
well
um I am going to give you more of a
broad overview of the fantasy I'll share
some Theory and I'll kind of teach you
the basics so that you can start playing
it yourself that's the Zen of behind the
speedrun
is it kind of doubles as an opening
course okay so our opponent anik uh she
takes on e4
and we take back and D takes E4 only
makes sense
in the context of one particular move it
does not make sense for black to give up
the center unless black immediately
follows up with a very important move
and this move constitutes one of the
main lines of the fantasy and as many of
you are pointing out that is the move E7
E5 common idea across many different
openings opening up a pathway for the
queen to H4 where it would deliver a
very nasty Fork against the king and the
E4 Pawn so in response to E5 we don't
take the pawn we don't go D5 both of
those moves allow Queen H4 we would go
Knight G1 to F3 sacrificing the D4 Pawn
for quick development I will show give
you the ins and outs of that line after
the game but our opponent plays Knight
to F6
and that is not
um
I wouldn't call this a terrible move
it's definitely not a terrible move and
it's a development developing move but
it's not the main theoretical move and
it definitely leads to a better position
for white
and it invites the move E5 this is
almost like a souped-up alkyne you can
think of this as like an alkyne type of
situation where we meet Knight F6 with
E5 typically now E5 is not forced and we
should at least
think about briefly the move Knight C3
but the problem with Knight C3 is that
it allows black to revert to the correct
course by playing E5 or basically giving
black another chance to contest the
center and after Knight C3 E5 if we then
take on E5 we allow the queen trade and
if we take on D1 with the Knight then we
give up the E4 pawn and if we take with
the King as is very typical the Knight
jumps into G4 threatening a fork on F2
and threatening to recover the pawn on
E5 with interest and black is better in
that end game so we definitely should
play E5 here this is almost an automatic
move
but what's important to realize here is
that we've bitten off a large chunk of
the center right we we have only moved
our pawns so I think a common mistake
here would be to play the move C4 and a
Temptation for a lot of players would be
to play C4 and in and of itself I think
C4 is not a terrible move but it's a
very risky move because we've already
bitten off a large chunk of the center
and you know to continue pushing our
pawns really puts us at risk of
overextending our Center and once our
Center starts to collapse and crumble
you know you can lose games like that
really quickly maybe you've even had an
experience against an opening like the
alkyne where you push all of your Pawns
in the center and suddenly your opponent
undermines them with with their own pawn
and before you know it your Center is
crumbling because you haven't developed
enough minor pieces so C4 is a decent
move C4 followed by Knight F3 but I am
inclined toward a more modest opening
approach
I'm inclined toward a more modest
opening approach on the other hand on
the other hand
the good thing about playing C4 is that
it chases the Knight away from a very
nice post on D5 the Knight on D5 is
annoying me it's in the center it's kind
of interfering in our development and if
you think about this
how is the game likely to unfold if we
just develop our pieces well what pawn
break is available to Black in the
center it's the only Pawn break what's
the C5 Pawn break I'm worried the
black's gonna go C5 at the right moment
and essentially cut into our Pawn chain
and if we meet C5 with C3 elephant style
then after the exchange of Pawns the
Knight on D5 is going to be virtually
unassailable it's going to be a very
powerful piece so I'm sort of changing
my opinion on this as I think about the
position I think we can get away with C4
provided that we quickly follow up with
accurate development let's actually go
C4 and yeah I flip-flopped on this move
at first I thought it was a mistake but
the more I start to calculate the more I
realize that we can actually get away
with this move so let me tell you why I
thought it was a mistake specifically
the knight's probably going to drop back
either to C7 or to B6 the move Knight B4
is not dangerous because we can play A3
and Chase the Knight away there's a
trick there that you should be aware of
I'll show you after the game our
opponent plays Knight B6 for some reason
I thought that C5 on the next move was
actually a very dangerous idea and it
would lead to the dissolution of our
Center but then I realized that the move
C5 can be met with the simple what who
can tell me how we are going to meet C5
are we going to take that pawn well that
doesn't look very good because then our
Center basically disappears
yeah we just go D5 we just go D5 and our
Center becomes even more imposing
meanwhile the C4 Pawn is nicely
protected by the bishop right
so we don't need to do anything special
we just need to develop our pieces but
we need to figure out what the best
scheme of development is
and what's interesting
this almost transposes to the four
ponzalachian again something I'll show
you afterward and in the four Pawn
alakyne you often develop the Queen's
Knight before the king's Knight and the
reason why is that if you play Knight F3
black can develop the light Square
Bishop to G4 and pin the Knight this can
be a little bit annoying so what you
often do in that variation is you wait
for black to develop their Bishop to F5
and only then do you develop your other
your King's Knight black in that case
can move can waste the tempo to play
Bishop G4 but then we've gained a Tempo
which which is a good thing so I
actually think Knight C3 is the most
accurate way to continue developing does
that kind of make sense
so we're playing this weird game of
chicken cat and mouse where we're trying
to get black to develop their Bishop
before we develop our Knight we have
plenty of other minor pieces that we
need to develop so
there we go Bishop F5 and now we safely
play the move Knight to F3 okay great
yeah you could also it's true you could
start with Bishop E2 and then play
Knight F3
but uh not not a crucial point but
nonetheless we're trying to be as
precise as possible and notice how after
E6 which has just been played Black is
still not really threatening to play C5
because we still have the move D5 in
response and that's why it was so
important for us to develop the Knight
to C3 promptly again to have D5 in
response to C5 now we can just continue
our development we can play the move
Bishop to D3 but I don't really see the
point in allowing or encouraging Bishop
G4 I think we should instead Play Bishop
E2
I think we should instead Play Bishop E2
and then we should castle and then we
should maybe bring the other Bishop out
to E3 in order to solidify our Center
there's really no such thing as you know
too solid of a center and in this case
our pieces are essentially operating in
service of the center like our Center is
our main industry and our main you know
export
um
we should be very very careful about the
move C5 we should check it on every turn
to make sure that the situation hasn't
changed and that we have D5 in response
because if we don't have D5 in response
that's a huge problem because then our
Center is going to dissolve and we're
very likely going to be worse
okay so we're making a mental note to
ourself
to check C5 on every turn
and our next priority is to complete our
development with an eye toward
maintaining the Integrity of our Center
once we do that
and we we can really bring our pieces
out for the next five or six moves after
we develop the bishop and we Castle we
also can bring the queen up to D2 we can
coordinate our Rooks we can bring a rook
from A1 to D1 solidifying the center
even further you could even consider the
move b2b3 which is very common in the
alkyne in order to again to solidify to
reinforce the C4 pawn and to take the
the burden off of the light squared
Bishop
so we're not even thinking about playing
on the king side just yet we have a lot
of Maintenance work to do on this big
Center that we've controlled that we're
controlling
and it really does look like an alkyne
and if you're watching this let's say on
YouTube and you're like well what is an
alicyne what line am I referencing uh
don't worry I will show you after the
game
but if you're impatient you can pause
the video and look up four pawns alakai
just on Google to and you'll immediately
recognize the structure Bishop E7 by any
okay well we continue developing with
Castle short this isn't I would say
inferior version of the alakyne for
black in in the line that I am
referencing black does have a slightly
more active scheme of development here
we essentially have everything we could
possibly ask for with white
okay so both sides continued their their
development and
we complete our minor piece development
by playing Bishop C1 to E3
and you might ask well why not Bishop F4
Bishop F4 is an alternative totally
viable alternative I think
and I'm not excluding that later in the
game if the services of the bishop are
required on it for whatever reason we
have to reinforce the pawn on E5 we'll
spend another Tempo but for now we
should exert more resources expend I
should say more resources on making sure
that the base of the pawn chain is
nicely protected because D4 is really
the linchpin of the entire construction
and this is of course called over
protection a concept derived by
nimsovich in his famous book my system
which I've referenced before and my
system sort of a seminal Tome I think
originally published in the 1920s and
the foundation of a lot of positional
principles that we now take for granted
like prophylaxis and overprotection
nimsovich really was the originator of
so many of these
um
okay A5 so what does A5 accomplish well
I guess our opponent is trying to grab
some space on the queen side but
immediately a drawback of this move
comes to mind which is that it loosens
the Knight on B6 and so in some
positions we might even play D5 on our
own volition right now D5 does not work
but if we had another attacker on the B6
Knight then D5 would be quite
overwhelming
so we are continuing our broad strategy
of making surface level improvements to
our position and there's a lot of those
improvements that we could make and we
could make them in a lot of different
orders because our position is not under
a lot of strain right now there's a lot
of flexibility in terms of what we do
and in what order we do it what I do not
want to do is play A4 maybe some of you
are thinking well we should prevent the
progress of Black's Pawn well where is
Black spawn even really going A4 does
more harm than good because it creates
this big hole on the B4 square and the
Knight on B8 is perfectly equipped to
occupy that Square via A6 so that would
play into Black's hands
if black reaches A3 then we just go B3 a
move that we kind of wanted to play
anyway so I'm not threatened by this ape
Pawn I think we can continue going about
our business
and there are two or three moves that I
have my eye on
first let's try to figure out where we
want the queen to be
and the answer is not what you might
think earlier I pointed out the move
Queen D2 and that's like the standard
way of connecting the Rooks right that's
like the stock move but I actually think
there's a somewhat better Square for the
queen I kind of want our Queen to
participate in a potential kingside
attack because I'm sensing that
eventually we have that semi-openf file
and we've got our pieces sort of pointed
at the king side so maybe it's a good
idea better idea to get our Queen onto a
square where it is well equipped to
handle a potential to direct a potential
attack and I'm thinking of the G3 Square
which is kind of a classic right maybe
how about Queen E1 let's play Queen E1
here let's try to play a little bit more
adventurously than normal
now notice that I have allowed the move
C5
but because black is so poorly developed
here
E5 even though we can't really play D5
in response what we can do is go Rook A1
to D1
okay and we haven't forgotten to check
for C5 on every move and after C5 Rook
D1
in the event of a trade our Center has
indeed dissolved but so have all of
Black's pieces if you look at that
position resulting position carefully
there's an x-ray on the queen there's an
attack on the bishop
the entire position just collapses so in
addition to Preparing Queen G3 we are
also clearing the parking spot for the
rook and a rook on D1 is just a much
better piece than a queen on Z1 right
because it x-rays the black queen and it
virtually does the same thing that a
queen on D1 would do it's just a more
economical use of resources well what
does a rook on D1 do it over protects
the D4 plant and most importantly it
prevents black from playing C5
so we've got a couple of projects in the
pipeline Knight A6 great move by our
opponent I have to say our opponent
playing very well so far
where is the night going well it's going
to be four so right off the bat what
move seems to make a lot of sense here
for white trying to make it as difficult
as possible for our opponent to
accomplish her aims yeah let's just go
A3 and I'm gonna play this move without
too much thought because it has no real
downsides and it has a major upside it
keeps the Knight locked in place on A6
now C5 is still a fairly uh serious idea
but still after C5 we positioned The
Rook on D1 and either we then played D5
on the next move or black trades on D4
and runs into just a massacre in the
center Queen C7 okay so definitely now I
think we should start by bringing the
Rook to D1 right and and before
completing our Queen maneuver we could
do it in the other other order but again
our priority here is to make sure that
our Center is nicely protected before we
even think about King side attacks or
any sort of other attacks so we first
take care of business in the center then
okay Rook d8 by our opponent again
notice that C5 is still not a threat
because we are once again capable of
meeting that move with D5
all right and now I think it's time for
us to complete our Queen maneuver and
position it on G3 good
I actually think we had a better move
potentially than than Queen G3 but
we'll we'll save that for the post game
discussion
well the reason c5d5 is bad for black is
that that pawn is just traveling to D6
and once it reaches D6 either it Forks
the queen of the bishop and even if the
queen moves out of the way the bishop
would simply be trapped on E7
so C5 is just is a losing move here for
black and what I've postulated many
times before is that I would say players
under 1800 they struggle when they're
put under a lot of strain and right now
Black's position is under a lot of
pressure our opponent is very cramped
very cramped we've got a big Center
we've got some you know storm brewing on
the king side and the more pressure the
higher the probability of a blunder or
not necessarily even a blunder but a
very drastic move such as C5
so let's see how our opponent handles
the pressure on her position
okay Rook D7 handling it very well so
far
preparing to double Rooks on the D file
nicely done
I'm thinking about a very interesting
idea
but it has to be calculated concretely
oh
my God there's some super cool lines
there okay we're gonna do it so what I'm
thinking about is a maneuver
that is rather on the typical side for
such positions in in these alakai
instructors this is a maneuver that I'm
familiar with so it's not like I've come
up with it just now
essentially I'm looking at the D6 Square
all right well Bishop H6 is tempting but
the bishop drops back to G6 so Bishop H6
is a paper tiger remember that black has
the move Bishop F5 to G6 blocking the G
file which is one of the negatives of
putting the queen on G3 black has Bishop
G6 on demand the D6 Square though is a
major weakness right let's not forget
that so it would be nice if one day we
could get a knight to D6 I mean that
would be and maybe support it with C5
that would be a dream now can we try to
get an itd6 well we actually can we
actually can try to get one of our
Knights to D6 if you look carefully
there is a maneuver which enables us to
do that
and that maneuver
that maneuver it starts with the move
either Knight D2 or even Knight forward
to G5 which could even be better
but what I don't like about Knight G5 is
that it allows black to trade on G5
now you could argue in turn that trading
on G5 gives up a very important piece
the dark squared Bishop in this position
is an important defensive piece and if
you calculate the variation Knight G5
Bishop takes G5 Bishop takes G5 we're
actually threatening the move Bishop F6
in that resulting position and after
Knight G5 Bishop takes G5 Bishop takes
G5 we're also preventing black from
completing the doubling of her Rook so I
like both Knight G5 and Knight D2
um I like both of these moves Knight G5
is a little bit more adventurous and
maybe even packs a slightly bigger punch
um okay let's go Knight G5 let's go
Knight shoe five let's try this move
um in in a classical game I think I
would be inclined to play Knight D2 but
I like the look of Knight G5 and it's
also pretty intimidating move to face so
also notice C5 we still have D5 we still
have D5 in response to C5
let's go on an adventure with the Knight
and this move I think the Practical
value of such a move is that it also is
misdirection right I feel like a lot of
people in this position would be very
likely to play H6 because H6 is like an
ingrained Instinct our opponent though
okay Rook oh now wait a second Rook FDA
there are some tactics here that we need
to invest
some time into thinking about
I'm gonna do the thinking don't worry
you can do the relaxing
we have a beautiful Rook sacrifice that
that looks very juicy but I think in the
context of the time situation we should
just complete our maneuver with Knight
G4
and after the game I'll show you
some interesting ideas worth exploring
but given how nice our position is to
begin with I really don't think such
outlandish acts are necessary
and I think we should just complete our
maneuver with that G4
yeah Knight G4
Okay so
so what is our next move likely to be
well our next move is likely to be
Knight T6 and you might say well Knight
D6 blunders upon obviously black is a
lot more Defenders on D6 but if you look
carefully 96 Bishop takes D6 e takes D6
who can tell me what move we are gonna
have at the end of the line no matter
with what black captures it doesn't
matter Queen Rook at the end of the line
we're going to have a particular very
important move and that move is C5 which
will Fork the Knight on B6 and the
whatever is on D6 or Roca Queen doesn't
matter
um it's gonna be a rook by the way
because if after Knight C6 Bishop d680
Queen takes these we of course should
trade Queens first and then play C5
um now of course if we want to
circumvent these complications we can
start with the move C5 establishing the
stronghold on D6 first and then
infiltrating that square let me say well
why is the D6 Square such a strong
square and that should be self-evident
too that's Square essentially just sends
black species into a tailspin C5 wow I
gotta say our opponent meeting us at the
top but I saw this move and I thought I
calculated a really really pretty line
here
so how have we been meeting C5 this
entire time
now you might say I see a very tempting
move Knight F6 check and this move would
be good but unfortunately after Bishop
F6 ef6 black can take our Queen out of
the equation and as a matter of fact at
the end black takes on D4 forking two of
our minor pieces
so instead what we have to do is the
move that we have been
trying to play this whole time and
that's D5
and we go ahead first into the
complications things get very very
complicated here so buckle in get ready
to visualize some lines I think we're
going to get the upper hand here but
listen I'm not myself I'm not totally
confident in this move
so let's unpack What's Happening Here I
might have to speed up a little bit
we've got about six minutes
the main Crux of the reason why D5
should work is because the bishop on F5
is very loose okay that that's you
should see that right away
so if black plays e takes D5 then
everything is rather simple we play Rook
takes F5 now we don't win a piece
because black takes our Knight on e4 but
in that position we can just duck with
the Rook to F1 and look at the attack
that we have going on the king side all
of Black's pieces are clustered on the
other side of the board we're gonna have
doubled Rooks we're gonna have the
Knight coming into E4 recapturing that
pawn
and then moving into F6 that's totally
Unthinkable so our opponent again
playing correctly Bishop takes E4 but
now I think we have a beautiful move we
don't automatically recapture on e4
because then black plays Ed I still
think that white has enough compensation
there but it's a little bit complicated
I think we have a beautiful Intermezzo
unless I've miscalculated we have the
move D6 shoving the pawn forward forking
the minor piece and the Queen and of
course the bishop on e4 is still hanging
which is very important and things are
going to get very dicey here for black
maybe not totally losing but it has to
be losing has to be losing for black
here
now there was one thing I failed to
anticipate when I was calculating this
and that is the move Bishop takes D6
that is a GM level move right there I
don't think it it helps black but it it
is a very high level move
and the idea of Bishop takes D6 is to
meet e takes D6 with Queen C6
that is boxed necessary because you have
to defend the bishop otherwise you're
going to lose both of your Bishops but
before we get there you might be like
okay but I don't get it what happens
after just Queen C6 which our opponent
is likely to play well after Queen C6 we
play Pawn takes E7
and notice that black cannot recapture
the pawn
because the Rook on d8 hangs with mate
you might say no it doesn't hang the
bishop the queen defends it no the queen
would have moved on to C6 wow our
opponent finds Bishop takes D6
okay
let's recapture but I don't think this
is gonna help her I don't think this is
gonna help I'm impressed with Black's
defensive resilience here but I'm pretty
sure we're winning anyway
okay and for those who saw Bishop takes
D6 nicely done
so Queen C6 here I guess is full in our
opponent collapse yeah Rook d6s is of
course the losing move
um Queen C6 would have lost as well and
I will show you I'm pretty sure I
calculated the winning line in my head
um but it would have been far more
resilient this of course is losing on
the spot it's losing to several
different moves actually folks come on
you don't have to play Knight B5 here
what's the what's the simplest move for
white come on
what's the simplest move for white here
just simple no no no not Bishop F4 let's
look at the whole board a lot of you are
jumping around in your mind and you're
forgetting just to look at the basics
are there hanging pieces
yeah just Knight takes E4
we don't I mean yeah Knight B5 is
probably even better
but I want to play it simple I want my
goddamn Bishop so of course you're
absolutely right Knight B5 is even
stronger it wins The Rook but I want my
bishop and I I feel like in a way this
demonstrates the superiority of our
strategy you know to take the bishop
of course Knight B5 is better but I
wanted you guys to see the hanging
Bishop I wanted you guys to see the
hanging Bishop okay
I want my Bishop I don't want a rook I
want a bishop
to be honest I also forgot that black as
Rook takes D1 but that doesn't change
anything we just take back and we calmly
convert our extra minor piece I also
kind of want to show you
how to convert the minor piece in that
position
I guess no I guess I was I did some
things to do but I should have got an
ip5 of course sorry that was a mental
freeze for me for some reason
you guys are right I was wrong Knight B5
I thought only wins in exchange but it
wins the whole Rook
yeah I don't know what I was doing here
Knight B5 I thought wins in exchange for
some reason I thought black moves the
queen and then can recapture on D6 but
we've got three attackers on D6 I'm an
idiot so I apologize for that that was a
bad move
I take I I stand corrected you were
absolutely right and what's bad about
this is that black will have three pawns
for the piece so our conversion is
actually not going to be easy okay but I
don't know why our opponent is losing
her mind like this
I don't know why our opponent is losing
your mind like you know what my guess is
you know what my guess is I think our
opponent forgot that the queen is
protected by the Knight tactics on the
C7 Square are easy to miss if you watch
the Hikaru Magnus final in the SCC you
might remember that famous moment where
Robert jinxed Magnus in the one move
blunder
um if you don't know what I'm talking
about you're watching on YouTube Just
pause and search uh Magnus one move
blunder SCC or Hess Bishop C7 you'll
find it basically Magnus blunder is a
bishop in one move on C7
so I actually think this might be uh the
correct explanation now again we can
play Fancy chess here
um or we can play utilitarian chess
let's just take the Rook on D6 this is
the no calculation move
and it and it ends the game I really
feel bad that I that I grabbed D4 like
that you know if we had taken E4 it
would have been an even better idea to
take on D6 first and I'll show you why
after the game Knight takes E4 is an
incredibly sloppy move
uh because if our opponent had correctly
taken on D1 at the end of the line the
C4 Pawn would have been capturable by
the night so we would have actually lost
a third Pawn
for the piece in the conversion there
would have been far from Easy
still would have been quite
quite a bit better but
um was would not have been
would have been a long a long arduous
process now this is game over
this is game over
yeah our opponent is thinking but we can
essentially pre-move what move what move
are we going to play after both Knight
takes D6 and Rook takes D6 to complete
the massacre on the D file
Bishop F4 exactly Bishop F4 a simple
pinning move
and simply black
dies on the D6 square and and I want you
to notice that the Knight on A6 right my
coach really said this to me already as
an I am
uh he told me that you know it's
incredibly hard to to play an entire
middle game without a piece right when
when a piece is completely out of the
game completely out of commission
it it eventually are going to pay the
price for it you're gonna pay the price
for a piece just being totally out of
the game like this whereas all of our
pieces are fulfilling a critical role
now you might say but he told me that
not every piece needs to be Distributing
the covert vaccine well yes but
we're talking here about the longer run
right the Knight on A6 was there the
whole time and there was no way to
activate it because C5 is a dead end
there's a pawn there before is a dead
end we put upon an A3 and it may not
seem that the Knight on A6 had a direct
bearing on the course of the game but it
did right lacking a piece like this is
potentially catastrophic okay Rook takes
F7 is simple here I'm not even asking
you the move
just because this is so straightforward
it's important by the way that The Rook
on D1 is protected by the bishop
otherwise black wouldn't have been able
to take on F7 and then take on D1 with
check and then recapture on F7 we would
have been forced to give up quite a few
pieces
so a nice game not a Flawless game but a
nice game
and very instructive I think
so first bit of context ladies and
gentlemen what is the alkyne the alkyne
is E4 Knight F6
and I've delved previously into the
history of the alkyne I don't think
alakayan was the first to actually play
this move I think it was played a couple
times in the early 1800s uh alakan was
born in the late 1800s
uh but he was really the first to
popularize this movement I think he
wrote about it yeah it was first played
in the year
since we're on the topic chess base is
loading
yeah 1802 no oh Napoleon so apparently
okay so there's more of a historical
tangent to go on to Napoleon Bonaparte
uh by contemporary eyewitnesses was in
Avid chess player and there are like
three or four Napoleon games that are
available online supposedly played by
Napoleon against other like high
dignitaries and uh the chess historians
that I've read seem to claim that these
games are fabricated and that they were
Fabrications uh made to to puff up the
reputation of Nepal oh look at him you
know he plays these brilliancies and the
games are kind of nice like he just
basically just kills the people he plays
um
so I see a game from 1802 supposedly
played by Madame de remu sat some you
know high and mighty lady against
Napoleon and it starts with E4 Knight F6
and that's the first game in the
database with the alachine okay she
played D3 the second game in the
database is by Del Mar Eugene Del Mar
one of the top American players of the
late 1900s in 1893 and alakyne was only
the seventh player to play it in 1921 so
again and again openings are not
necessarily named by the player who
played them first but often by the most
famous player who played that opening in
like the vicinity of the First games
uh so a little historical tangent there
but of course White's main move against
the I was gonna say against the Napoleon
against the alakyne is E5
the Knight jumps into D5 D4 D6 and this
is a classic hyper modern opening black
invites white to control a big chunk of
the center and then attacks that Center
and chips away with it with his own
pawns so the four Pawn variation of the
alakyne is C4 Knight B6 and now F4 you
can now see why it's called the four
pawns and the main line of the four
pawns continues as follows D5
fe5 Knight E C6 and here you use a rule
that I talked about in our game the move
Knight F3 is inaccurate because the
bishop jumps out to G4 putting
tremendous strain of the D4 Pawn so you
actually have to start with Bishop to E3
here
and I'm sure we'll get an alicon at some
point
um black plays Bishop F5 you play Knight
C3 E6 and only now do you play Knight F3
right
this structure should be very familiar
too now in our game black is a Pawn on
C6 but we essentially had the same exact
structure and so I was borrowing a lot
of ideas from what I know about the Four
Knights alakyne now black can actually
go Bishop G4 here this is a legitimate
variation but it's it's not nearly as
effective to do it with a loss with the
tempo loss
and if I remember correctly Bishop B2 is
the main move Bishop takes F3 and now
you play G takes F3 and the point is
that the check on H4 is completely
futile due to Bishop F2 it's still the
main line but uh White is supposed to be
much much better here according to
according to the engine so I won't delve
too deeply into the alkyne theory
see what I was referencing
and let's get into our game
so a little opening introduction to the
fantasy here
our opponent played de and immediately
committed an error with Knight F6 and
after E5 white is already clearly better
I just checked with the engine and it's
it's like plus over minus immediately
black has to play the move E5 and this
is the line that is recommended in most
books on on the Carrick and from black
side White's response is Knight F3 and
here
there is an interesting fork in the road
so against Mr Kusha late in the previous
speedrun we faced Black's main move
which is Bishop C8 to G4
but this is a very risky line and
frequently white responds with Bishop to
C4 and can anybody tell me what this
move actually threatens just recently I
was part of the Charlotte chess Center
delegation at the national uh Scholastic
state championships in the 1600 against
one of the Charlotte kids played Knight
F6 in this position and immediately fell
for Bishop takes F7 and Knight takes C5
now normally
the the tactic goes Knight G5 but here
Knight G5 makes no sense you have to
play Knight takes E5 you guys all know
this tactic but it's good to review it
and white is already winning
so black has to know this down pat and
black has to know the move Knight to D7
something that not not all of you may
know is that Bishop F7 and Knight G5 may
still seem to work in this position but
it doesn't it's absolutely crucial that
you remember this when there is a queen
making contact of the G5 Square this
move refutes the whole concept I have
seen so many people fall for this
because the point is remember you have
sacrifice now two minor pieces the
bishop on F7 and then Knight on G5 and
black only gives one minor piece Away by
taking the queen so at the end of the
day you are simply down a minor piece
okay I'm sure some of you have blundered
like this before just a something to
remember
so after Knight D7 white simply
continues his development and black
continues theirs with Knight gf6 White
NOW plays the move C3 solidifying the
center of course the pawn on e4 in
almost all of these positions is is
totally Untouchable I mean if you ever
take E4 you're gonna get massacred again
with Bishop takes F7 and really this is
the appeal of playing the fantasy you
get this semi-openf file that you can
use for attacking purposes so here you
play C3 black typically develops the
dark squared Bishop to D6 and the game
goes on
um
at some point as we go up and raining
I'm going to delve more deeply into this
line because this is one of the main
lines I'll show you some of my analysis
but for now this is purely introductory
and I should mention that there is a
second move in this position and that is
e takes D4 this is what the computer
will recommend to you at a lower depth
this is a mistake and this is where the
fantasy gets unbelievably fun buckle up
because you're going to enjoy this
what is White's move in this position
does anybody know
what is white supposed to do here and if
you're already understanding the spirit
of the fantasy then this move should be
pretty obvious too because you're making
an emphasis on you're making a play on
development you don't really care about
restoring material equality that's not
why you play the Fantasy
that's not why you play the Fantasy
Bishop C4 very nice Bishop C4 you get
the bishop out to C4 first in order to
attack the F7 Pawn
forbid God forbid you play a move like
Queen takes D4 and get into the endgame
then why are you playing the fantasy so
after Bishop C4 I just want you to watch
how quickly things get bad for black
let's say let's say that black just goes
Knight F6
now we continue developing with castles
and if blackplay's Bishop E7 we're
following a game from 1910 takeman
against mises two of the leading players
of the 20th century watch this Bang
castles and you make a move here that
normally is totally innocuous you play
Knight takes F7
but the point is that after black gives
away two pieces of a rook bang and you
win the Knight on F6 with an extra
exchange and you're winning
so black loses in 10 moves here
now more resilient for black is to play
NB to D7
but here you play the move Queen to E1
this is where I got the idea from uh in
our game and the fantasy it's incredibly
common Bishop B7 E5 push the pawn
and after Knight D5 you trade on D5 and
right now we're following my opening
file
and you play
uh Queen to G3 inducing a massive
weakness because of black castles here
we play Bishop H6 and we win f8
so this line is similarly depressing and
finally I will point out that black has
the move Bishop to E6 in this position
but here
we simply take on E6 and we castle and
with the open file Black's King is
absolutely busto absolutely busto
so for example
you know Bishop B7 just Knight takes D4
attacking E6 Queen D6 Knight to A3 is
crushing you're coming into C4
um and one really sexy move that I
discovered in my analysis watch this so
black is the move Knight F6
you play E5
and black goes Knight to E4
so here there is an absolutely gorgeous
move gorgeous move and when I say
gorgeous like you start thinking of
Queen sacrifices clearly there is no
sacrifice here I'll let you guys take a
stab at it white to play and win
so Knight G5 blunder is the night folks
well it doesn't blunder the night I see
what you want you want to check but this
merely leads to a queen trade if you
keep calculating don't stop calculating
yeah you have to take and black is more
than happy to trade Queens right that
represents the failure of white strategy
now when you come up with an idea that
doesn't work what tends to happen in the
most most people's thought processes is
that they abandon the idea and they
abandon the underlying concept but the
underlying concept of what you are
suggesting actually works okay what is
the underlying concept of moving the
Knight out of the way well out of the
way of what well out of the way of The
Rook but also the queen what you should
notice is that if a queen was on F3
instead of the Knight there would be a
simple double attack on F7 and on
Black's Knight on e4
so then you say okay well then we should
play Knight 64 but Knight takes D4 is
bad because it allows black to develop
his pieces with Tempo Bishop C5 and then
if you have to waste the tempo black
uses this Tempo to bring his Queen up to
D5 in order to take the sting out of the
move Queen F3 now black is in time to
play Rook f8 so by process of
elimination Knight H4 blunders the
Knight the only Square available is
Knight to E1 this is the top engine move
and the only winning move 91
and the idea is just to play Queen F3 or
queen G4 also a fork
and black is just not in time to defend
everything at the same time
Queen D5 is forced no other way to
protect the night Queen F3
King d8 and now the Knight comes out to
D3 a beautiful blockading square and
after Knight D7 it moves to F4
and after Queen takes E5 the queen and
the Knight are aligned Bang
and watch this Knight G5
is an attempt to unpin the Knight with
Tempo and white has an absolutely
beautiful winning move here
white is an absolutely beautiful winning
move here I'll give you guys another
chance to find it
this is a difficult move but it should
make sense once it's played
now folks Rook takes E5 of course does
not work because after Knight takes F3
you might say hey I won a piece but the
Rook is hanging very good you got it
Knight takes E6 check is the move this
is a classic deflection sacrifice so
don't be fooled by the complex
appearance this is just a deflection you
are deflecting the Knight on G5 so that
you can take the queen
and in case of Queen takes E6 you take
the Knight with check and win the queen
again the queen can't block the check
because then The Bishop's gonna take
and if black moves the King which is
actually the best move
what does white do in this position
well white makes a ridiculously quiet
winning move the Rook is hanging so you
can't take the Knight taking the queen
still doesn't work because black takes
the queen and takes the Rook so by
process of elimination we need to save
the queen and defend the Rook Queen F1
or queen F2 and white wins the game
because the queen is hanging and the
Knight is hanging so black is basically
forced to give up the queen
so that folks is just a taste the tip of
the iceberg of of some of the fantasy
lines that you get now some of you were
saying how do you come up with a move
like 91 well I hope I described how to
come up with it right first you realize
that your main attacking asset is the f
file well how do you squeeze the most
juice out of the FL when you need a
queen on the app file that is a priori
obvious
and for that to happen to move the
Knight and by process of elimination 91
is the most economical move because
Knight takes D4 gives black a chance to
bring their pieces out
um so cool cool line hope you enjoyed
that line and that is a taste of why why
uh e takes D4 in this position is a
mistake now there is also the move
Bishop to E6 which is quite rare I won't
delve into it right now the best move
for white here is actually Knight beat
82 to prepare Bishop C4 and this is also
very dangerous for black but we will
talk about this at some later time let's
get into the game black played Knight F6
and we respond with E5
so now we decided to expand our center
with C4 which I previously explained now
it is important to point out that a move
night like night before can actually be
very dangerous in alkyne structure
because if you ignore the Knight and you
play Knight C3 there's a classic tactic
that you should remember and that's of
course Queen takes D4 common common
blunder you might have even blundered
something like this queen takes D4
Knight C2 check and Knight takes D4 this
is unbelievably common across many
openings that exist for example in a
completely unrelated opening the jababa
London which I play with white I've had
this a lot if you've seen my Blitz Games
C5 E3 and now very often people go
Knight to C6 this is the jababa trick
because after Knight B5 black has no
easy way to defend C7 a lot of people
end up going E5 here they say I'm gonna
give up a pawn but at least there's no
Knight C7 but here you have Queen takes
D5 the same exact concept on the other
side of the board takes here here here
and we are up two pawns completely
winning
okay so I really like giving you
examples of when the same idea occurs in
a different opening just to solidify
your understanding
so of course after a night before
the best thing for white to do is play
A3 and Chase the Knight away straight
away black can still play Queen takes D4
it's actually the top engine move
and after a before to start running
around with the queen and trying to
bring White's King out of the initial
Square which he does because G3 Queen E4
loses The Rook but after King D2 black
simply does not have enough pieces to
exploit the weakened position of the
king the king is going to tuck itself
away on C2 and black has insufficient
compensation okay
uh so in any case our opponent moves
back to B6 and we start developing our
pieces so we'll go quickly through the
uh next stage of the game because I was
explaining it during the game
we get the bishop out we Castle our
opponent does the same we bring the
bishop out and our opponent plays A5
and queen E1 I think is the top engine
move actually Queenie one is is very
very strong and I borrowed this idea
from other variations of the fantasy
like the one that I showed you
uh and the queen is heading for G3 and
making space for The Rook to jump into
D1 Knight A6 now we alertly play A3 to
prevent Knight B4 and by the way Knight
V4 would be quite nasty if you make a
random move Knight before is a big
problem because you can move the Rook
out of A1 but you really don't want to
give up the dark squared Bishop here
that that Bishop is an important Cog in
the machine
okay
so A3 prevents Knight B4
now we lift our we lift our Rook up rook
D1
and we lift our Queen up to G3
and again if C5 we always want to meet
this move with D5 right
and once this happens the pawn gets to
D6 and the game is over
so our opponent plays Rook D7
and here we decided to initiate the
Knight maneuver with Knight to G5
and of course as I was pointing out
Knight D2 is also possible and the fancy
little detail here is that if black
plays C5 crucially The Rook is making
contact with the bishop so after D5 the
pawn on E6 is overloaded otherwise this
would fail e takes D5 Rook takes F5 and
you might say well wait black has D4 but
here white has a billion moves there's
Knight B5 but more importantly there's
Bishop to H6 threatening mate and just
winning the game on the spot
so so Knight D2 actually is the top
engine which is interesting Knight G5 is
also very very strong
um and just to give you a flavor of some
of these lines after Bishop takes you
five Bishop takes G5 black is in fact
completely lost I think this position is
losing for black
it's losing because black is totally
paralyzed and black is paralyzed because
he has no access over the dark squares
he's no access over the dark series
because you know black just gave up the
bishop
so
let for example like what is black
likely to do here well I would imagine
that a move like Bishop G6 right is
likely to close the G file who can tell
me a very typical attacking move that
just shows black who the boss is on the
king side this is like totally automatic
here this bishop is the only thing that
stands between the queen and a mating
mechanism bang H4
well black really has no choice but to
play H5
and now Bishop F6 anyway look at this
move
and the point is that after G takes F6
the black Bishop is now pinned which we
can use we can play Rook takes F6 with
an overwhelming attack but I even more
like the move Knight to E4
Knight to E4 heading for F6 and we don't
even need all of our pieces here black
is utterly overwhelmed utterly
overwhelmed check
here infiltrating to H6 takes check H5 I
mean everything collapses here and
notice how everything nicely comes
together that h-bond finally delivers
the crushing blow
now remember that when I show you these
lines and if you're not totally
convinced you can always reproduce this
position on your own chess.com analysis
board and do some analysis there's
nothing wrong with that all right I'm
giving you just a flavor of some lines
but I'm not giving you a comprehensive
analysis but H4 is incredibly strong
here and if black plays H6 we can just
play Bishop H6 and H5 with a crushing
attack
so giving up the dark squared Bishop is
Unthinkable here I think our opponent
played correctly and we complete the
maneuver with Knight G4 now I mentioned
uh during the game that there were some
attractive sacrificial lines that were
catching my eye but I couldn't make any
of them work in particular the one that
I was attracted to the most was Knight
takes F7 King takes F7 Rook takes F5
check and what is all this leading
toward now the move E6 check and the
point is to drag the king to E6 and then
to play Queen takes G7 and keep the
queen locked on E6
but the reason I don't think this works
is because black has the cold-blooded
move Bishop F6 opening up an attack on
the queen
and I didn't see anything concrete here
I know D5 might look like it's mate but
it's not black just plays CD and D5 is
the most well-defended Square on the
board so we're not able to crash through
here and remember white is sacrifice an
entire Rook but all of this is a moot
point because this is unnecessary you're
already basically winning with simple
moves there's no need to go crazy
there's no need to go crazy now
according to the engine what's
fascinating is that after Knight F7 King
F7 the move D5 apparently preserves a
winning advantage and the point of D5 is
to meet C takes D5 with the sudden
Knight B5
oh and the queen loses contact with the
Knight on B6 unless black plays Queen C6
but now the Knight swings back to D4
and after Queen C7 bang look at this
bang just smashing through and now it
works
oh gorgeous check and mate I mean these
are just beautiful lines uh and if King
E4 Queen F4 is mate just just smashing
through with sacrifices
but this is because of the potential
energy just because all of our pieces
are on the king side so we can actually
spare we can we can sacrifice a few of
them and still have plenty it's all
definitely would have found it but look
at this idea D5 sorry not Rook F5 D5
smashing through now if e takes D5 then
we take the bishop with interest if
black does not do anything the pawn
moves up to D6 or plays D take C6
so CD we we use the B5 Square to force
the queen forward otherwise otherwise we
simply take B6 and again I mean now
material is equal we're crushing
and now we drop back to D4
take E6 and then take F5 and Bishop G4
is coming so this is utterly utterly
crushing just disgusting attacking lines
all around but we played it simple
Knight G4 C5 so again if black does not
play C5 then we would be very likely to
play C5 ourselves and once the Knight
drops into D6 I feel like the game is
essentially over just I mean black
cannot play with a pawn like this on D6
this is just a disgusting outcome and we
can do this as simple as Bishop B5 just
winning The Rook on D7 with keeping the
pawn on D6 I mean
this doesn't require a lot of analysis
so I think our opponent's decision to
play C5 is a good one but it just
doesn't work out D5 Bishop E4 and oh my
gosh according to the engine D6 is
winning it is winning
but amazingly the correct line was 94 e
takes D5 and now
oh just a gorgeous line okay watch this
watch this so you start with Bishop H6
okay
black has two ways to defend the G7 Pawn
the first is Bishop E7 to f8 now this is
easy we play Knight F6 check and
apparently the mating move is oh my God
the quiet Bishop to D3
Bishop E2 to D3 and the idea is that
after here there's Bishop G7 Bishop G7
and now who can tell me the mating idea
why do we actually need this bishop on
D3 what's the whole mating line
well basically you create a series of
made threats not Queen H4 not Queen oh
yeah you can play Queen H4 Queen before
sorry or queen H3 Queen F5 doesn't
matter my bad yeah Queen H4 is also good
and this is why the bishop is necessary
imagine if the bishop was on E2 here
black would be able to play Bishop takes
F6 eliminating the defender but here the
mate comes from two different sources
the bishop and the Knight you can't take
two pieces at the same time Queen H7 is
Unstoppable another incredible move
Bishop T3 but not the only win you can
just take the Rook here if you want to
win simply and you're just up in
exchange and crushing
but the second move is even more
beautiful after G6 bang Rook F7 again
King F7
and now you actually play very
straightforwardly check
here and just here just Queen F4 and the
point of Rook F7 there is just to open
up the f file and this is Unstoppable I
mean there's just threats from so many
different angles here the black just
gets demolished Bishop f8 Bang
and this is mate
otherwise we go Queen F7 and we we just
killer oh here Knight G5 is even
stronger
naichi 5 is even stronger Bishop G5
check and mate
and black is utterly overwhelmed here
and again look at the Knights just
hanging out on the queen side the queen
hanging out
black it makes sense that all of this
works because wax pieces are utterly
uninvolved in the defense this just
shows you that in chess like attack
beats defense here there is no defense
the king is all alone
um if D take C4
then just Rook D to F1
I mean does this deserve any further
analysis look at the pieces this is we
made 50 different ways
so I know your head probably hurts with
all these lines but I hope you enjoyed
that and we played D6 which of course
does not ruin anything last set of lines
and just to mention yet Knight B5 of
course is the best move here Knight
takes E4 was incredibly sloppy and a
loud black after Rook D1 Rook D1 Rook D1
Bishop D1 Queen G3 hg3 to take a third
pawn and attack a fourth Pawn now after
Bishop C1 it's still plus three because
white is the bishop pair black spawns
are terrible and the Knights are
terrible so this is still completely
winning for white but you know kudos to
those who noticed that Knight B5 would
have won a complete Rook
okay but the last thing I wanted to talk
about is what would have happened after
Queen to C6 here we would have played D
take C7
The Rook slides over to E8 and now we
have what's called a collinear move a
collinear move
is a move when two pieces are staring at
each other okay and can be captured it's
a move on the same file but that doesn't
capture the piece
so what's what's a collinear move that
fits the bill here Rook D6 beautiful
hopefully you got that definition looks
like people did so this is a collinear
move this is a collinear move but the
correct move is Rook to D6
Rook takes D6 Ed and just look at these
spawns and this is where we won't
Analyze This any further
it just kills black soap all pawns no
hope and here literally all pawns no
hope
so and it was a caracon actually that's
all bonds no hope
so anyways our opponent took on D6 so we
take back
and uh oh there was one more thing
in this position black could have also
gone Queen C6 right our opponent could
have played it here but here's what we
do we take the bishop
and now and Betty Watson's in the chat
now we play Bishop to D3 and just look
at how the Bishops are slicing through
the king side forcing the queen back and
now it's time to set up the lobster
pincer Bishop G5 and the bishop just
infiltrates to F6
Bang
bang and queen h8 6 is going to be
Checkmate Queen takes D6 is an attempt
to defend to meet Queen H6 with Queen f8
but now whoop Bishop takes G6 with a
decisive Discovery against the queen and
the game is over
so why Bishop G5 to F6 rather than
Bishop H6 directly fantastic question
the only reason is because black has
this defense F5
always watch for that when there's a
rook on the seventh rank these moves
that push a pawn out of the way and set
up a defensive line okay so it's
actually very important here to block
the F7 Pawn otherwise you'd be
absolutely correct these are equivalent
symmetrically
okay
so on that note folks our opponent of
course kind of collapsed here and gave
up all the pieces but the hard work had
already been done
that was a lot of analysis right that
was a intense game there was a lot going
on in the center I hope the explanations
were clear
and I hope you enjoyed the game any
questions
[Music]
