foreign
[Music]
let's try to make it count
1478 trying to hit 1500. Let's see we
get this time all right we've got black
against radio Galaxy 1441 and mostly we
have been getting one E4 we actually
have not gotten a single one D4 just yet
and that remains the case we continue
exploring
the depths of the Sicilian and we still
have not gotten a main line accelerated
Dragon either
okay this seems pretty promising we go
Knight C6 and let's hope we see D4
this will be our first nope we still are
still getting Bishop C4 essentially
every game which I think is really
interesting because it shows you that
people just don't really study the
Sicilian really up through like 15 1600
which is pretty eye-opening to me
because I don't remember this being the
case in our first speed run so maybe
we're just uh getting unlucky or lucky
depending on how you think about it
because Bishop C4 is not a very good
move now a couple of videos ago I gave
you a pretty detailed rundown of exactly
how to meet the bishop C4 system of
course we also faced it
um but we also talked about the
quote-unquote main lines of Bishop C4
and the first step here is to
to blunt the bishop with the classic
move E6 and E6
is a move that should be logical to you
without really any prior knowledge right
you're creating a classic situation
where the bishop is fighting on granite
and of course you're also preparing D7
D5 which is a very useful move
in many of these positions to grab
control of the center and hit the bishop
so most of the time White Castles right
we mostly examined castles and then you
might remember that the move there is
Knight G8 to F6 and in that position we
looked at a bunch of different moves
our opponent is taking their time
let's see what
white comes up with here I mean apart
from castling white has a bunch of other
moves and all of them are kind of the
same right it's not like the difference
between D3 and Knight C3 and castles
isn't all that large Knight C3 okay so
our opponent continues to develop and we
uh should continue to do the same
you should remember one important detail
that Knight F6 in this line can be
safely played without fearing E5 I think
a lot of players they look at Knight F6
and they say well I can't do that
because of E5
and you end up playing a slightly more
passive move here like D6 now D6 is okay
but of course we want to be able to play
D5 in one Fell Swoop in these positions
so you should remember from our analysis
that Knight f65 is not scary for several
different reasons as nifa points out E5
can be met first of all with the typical
move D5 you also see that in the scotch
Gambit this idea of meeting E5 with D5
and then counter attacks the bishop on
C4 that's one way to meet it another way
to meet E5 is just to jump with the
Knight to G4 and that hits the pawn on
E5 forces white to defend it with Queen
E2 and then we can remove the pawn from
the board either by playing Queen C7 and
trying to win the pawn or more to the
point would be to play a move like D6 in
that position to force the exchange and
help us develop our pieces but all of
that is a moot point because white plays
D3 and now we reap the benefits of not
pushing D6 prematurely in this position
it makes perfect sense I think to push
D5 straight away and get more control of
the center and essentially solve all of
our opening problems in in one move so
so I think already after D5 I would
probably prefer black here the position
of course is equal objectively according
to the engine it always evaluates the
positions in this line as as just like
zeros but we can already fight for the
advantage because we have a larger share
of the center so already an instructive
moment after Bishop B5 because we have a
pretty vast choice
we have a choice between playing D4 D
takes E4 which is a pretty tempting move
to me because it forces an end game in
which after the trade of Queens white is
essentially going to be forced to move
their King
okay now you might be tempted by D4 for
the wrong reason you might notice that
after d492 we have Queen A5 check
winning the bishop unfortunately after
D4 we cannot rely on our opponent making
a blunder even if it's likely the
problem is that after D4 white can first
take the Knight on C6 this also has the
byproduct of ruining our Pawn structure
and after BC white drops the Knight back
to E2 so I don't like D4 at all I feel
like closing the center here it
generally benefits the player who has
less space or less control over the
center and that's definitely not us
so I like two different approaches here
I like d take C4 I think that's a good
move and I think the resulting end game
can only be slightly better for black I
also like a typical developing move like
Bishop E7 absolutely nothing wrong here
with just playing Bishop E7 and castles
you don't need to play A6 right there's
no need to force this bishop to take the
Knight because he actually might do that
anyway if we just continue developing
our pieces so we're choosing between
forcing an end game with Pawn takes Pawn
or just continuing our development with
Bishop E7 I feel like the the Russian
Schoolboy approach would be to take the
punt but trading Queens this early in
the game a little bit toothless I want
us to have a fun game so let's go with
Bishop E7
and I'll talk a little bit about the end
game afterward 95 our opponent is
pouncing pouncing on us with 95. now
this is not a scary move because white
does not have the the horsepower to
sustain an attack against the C6 Knight
which we have many different ways to
defend now you shouldn't Panic here and
go Bishop D7 because that would give up
the bishop pair and I don't want to give
up the bishop pair there's no need for
that a more strategic way to defend the
Knight would be to play the move Queen
to C7
and then you might be afraid of Bishop
F4 in response but Bishop F4 in response
is similarly not scary because we can
shift the Bishop from E7 to D6 to unpin
Our Queen and in that resulting position
interesting things actually start
happening
and I'm just trying to calculate a funny
line that occurs in the resulting
position
yeah let's do it let's go Queen C7 let's
see if we can actually get that line on
the board because I think Bishop F4 is
going to follow pretty quickly uh an
alternative by the way something that I
would maybe even play in a classical
game is Just Queen to B6 right Queen to
B6 is a good alternate alternative
because it protects the Knight and it
and it it's not in the way of any of
White's pieces right Knight A4 in that
resulting position would blunder the
bishop on B5 Queen F3
I believe that blunders a knight in one
move
now my only
reservation is that white has Bishop F4
in that position but our Queen is not
trapped our queen in fact has two
different distinct evacuation routes the
easy move is Queen to H5 just
essentially offering a queen trade but
even Queen E5 to D4 I think is quite
safe because the queen can then evacuate
to B4
and everything is groovy so I don't see
a reason not to take the Knight I think
that was just a flat out blunder
and okay I'd hesitate to say that the
game is over some people they just
resign when they blunder like this but
at this level I think most people are
going to continue playing now I actually
think we have a very clinical way to
play this I think we have a cute way to
get out of White's initiative now watch
this
the okay Queen H5 is of course totally
possible what happens after Queen H5
well one possibility for white in
response is to trade queens and then
play Pawn takes Pawn on D5 and if you're
visualizing that resulting position you
might notice that the bishop on F4 is
actually hanging and we can capture it
but then unpleasant things start to
happen white takes on C6 with the pawn
and has an x-ray and whites managed to
Garner a pawn for the piece which is
something we shouldn't allow if we can
help it so Queen H5 leads to these
complications so is there an intermezzo
internet so the name of one of the best
restaurants in Charlotte but also
if you ever find yourself here
also the name of what we are about to do
in Intermezzo is an in-between move also
known as is vicenzog and it's a move you
throw in before the quote-unquote main
move you're trying to make right so the
main move here is to move the queen away
so before we move the queen away we
start by playing the simple D takes E4
and you always have to be very careful
when you're playing with a hanging Queen
it doesn't even matter what you're doing
you always need to double check that for
example in such positions where both
Queens are hanging you should absolutely
make sure that your opponent doesn't
have a a way to move their Queen with
check which would then leave your queen
hanging and be a Desperado sacrifice
where let's say that there was a rook on
G4 here right for the purpose of
arguments white would have Queen takes
Rook since white is going to give give
up the queen anyway the logic is that
you give it up for as much value as you
can and Desperado sex can be easy to
miss and they can be game changers of
course here neither thing is possible
white does have a check Bishop takes C6
check but that doesn't change anything
after BC
okay now if white plays Knight takes E4
yeah then Queen takes B2 wins another
Pawn I mean it gets a little bit
complicated
I think we should meet Knight takes E4
just with Queen to D5 in order to
intercept White's Queen okay because if
you calculate Knight takes E4 Queen
takes B2 there's actually this nasty
idea Bishop takes Knight check and then
the Knight takes the Knight with check
and then the queen would be able to
capture on C6 things get kind of
complicated there when you're up a piece
you want to avoid unnecessary
complication Queen E5 to H5 and now of
course there is no further complexities
here everything is clarified and we are
simply up a piece but that doesn't mean
you should fall asleep or that the rest
of the game is going to be lame we still
need to convert it and there's still
plenty for us to learn and practice
so the next step assuming that our
opponent doesn't go for the queen trade
if white goes for the queen trade
everything is really quite
straightforward if white keeps the
Queens on the board with a move like I'm
anticipating Queen G3
then our next step is to complete our
development we still need to Castle we
still need to eventually figure out a
home for the C8 Bishop which is
currently hemmed in by the E6 Pawn
notice that after you Castle kingside
you're going to have the possibility of
jumping into D4 with the C6 Knight which
I think is a really good possibility
something to keep in mind other than
that everything here is going to be very
straightforward we're going to complete
our development try to get this bishop
out of the gates and once we do that
we're either going to continue
simplifying and continue insisting on
the queen trade or we're going to launch
a direct attack on White Center or on
whites King using our extra piece
and that's that and our opponent
continues to think
yeah but it's interesting since our
opponent is thinking we can use this
time for some philosophical discussions
I it is surprising me that so many
people are are choosing Bishop C4
against the Sicilian because the
Sicilian really should be one of the
first things that you learn when you're
building an opening repertoire and
that's why I'm so insistent on the C3
Sicilian because I think it's an easy
compact opening that can be learned in a
few days and it's just ridiculously
dangerous because people who learn the
Sicilian with black just they often only
learn the open Sicilian especially at
the lower levels and they really have no
idea what to do against the allop and as
we've seen Queen D3 okay well that's uh
just another way of keeping the Queens
on the board and in response we Castle
short and of course Queen D3 is a pretty
awkward Square because it's also walking
into Rook to d8 which is a nice move to
throw in with Tempo just hitting the
queen we don't have to do it on the next
move just making these mental notes to
myself
and another thing I'm noticing is that
we could push the pawn up to E5
and open up the light script Bishop so
that would be one way to deploy the
bishop play E5 and then for example go
Bishop to E6 okay Bishop takes C6 BC now
you might be like well why didn't I
avoid this why didn't we go why didn't
we go Bishop to D7 here well the answer
is that I don't give a damn about this
Pawn structure we are up a piece this
Pawn structure is visually ugly that is
true but it's actually not that bad C5
is well protected C6 is hard to access
in fact the pawn on C6 is controlling
some important squares as is the Pawn on
C5 and yeah the pawn on A7 is isolated
but none of it can be attacked and all
of it is you know you have to always
have the hierarchy of importance in mind
when you're up a piece you can afford to
take certain Liberties if material was
equal then we would assign more weight
uh to this particular Factor but right
now everything pales in comparison to
the fact that you're just up a full
piece you don't really care about
anything else okay so let's get the
bishop uh out of out of C8 I see two
ways of trying to do that we can also
play A5 and do it on the other side A5
and Bishop to A6 an idea worth
remembering that occurs in many
different openings
but I feel like A6 is kind of a dead end
wow and Yvonne you literally said is A5
a good move here at precisely the moment
that I said it which is kind of funny
the reason I don't like A5 that much is
because even after we get the bishop to
A6 the rook's gonna move out of the way
and the bishop is just gonna be
shooting Into Thin Air a little bit
right I want the bishop to be more
centrally located and so my choice is E5
E5 and also this move comes with Tempo
which is always a nice bonus and then we
deploy the light squared Bishop to E6
now of course once the bishop moves away
from C8 and this is something that
should be spinning in your head at all
times any time a piece moves from a
particular Square you have to reassess
whether your opponent can now access
certain squares with their pieces right
so for example after the bishop moves
away from C8 White's Queen can jump into
A6 something that you should be aware of
but Quinn A6 can be simply met with Rook
f8 to C8 and yeah a little bit passive
on the queen side but the Queen's not
going to stay on A6 forever we're going
to smoke it out eventually
another thing I'm noticing is that after
E5 Our Queen is kind of a little bit
stuck on the king side which is not a
bad place to be stuck on
but nonetheless perhaps a little bit
later in the game we'll try to find a
way to get this queen on a square where
it controls the center more directly
yeah or Hoy asks isn't five vulnerable
after Bishop E3 so again it is but
what's the worst case scenario you lose
upon big deal right you're up a piece
but after Bishop E3 we have a very
concrete move that takes this bishop off
the board right the queen is aiming at
H2 so you should see the move Knight G4
and that's probably also how our
opponent was thinking Knight G4
threatens mate forces H3 and we can
trade very favorably the night for the
bishop getting ourselves by the way a
nice little Bishop pair on top of
everything else now this is where you
get into the area of refinement right
constantly refining your ideas finding
the best execution for everything so
rather than playing Knight G4
immediately Knight G4 is a 18 1900 level
move but what's the 2300 level move well
the 2300 approach is to understand that
Knight G4 isn't going anywhere
so what we can do is throw in a very
valuable Tempo move it's a move that
I've mentioned previously we've made a
mental note to ourself to look for this
move and now it's time for this move and
the move is Rook d8 now it's not because
it attacks the queen that this move is
so effective the reason this is
effective is because the queen is almost
out of squares if it goes back to E2
then thank you for the queen trade and
then thank you for the center Pawn
and if it goes to C4 now the move Knight
G4 is a hundred times more effective
because after H3 we take the bishop on
E3 and white has to make this
ridiculously ugly recapture with the
pawn totally ruining White's King side
and the win is going to follow shortly
thereafter
that's precisely what's going to happen
Knight G4
forcing H3 and after Knight takes E3
with the queen on D3 white would have
been able to preserve the Integrity of
his structure by taking back with the
queen now this is impossible white has
to take back with a pawn and that opens
up all sorts of avenues for our pieces
even the move Rook to D2 in the
resulting position looks mighty good
but I think we're going to throw in
Bishop E6 first
so we could have yeah of course we could
have also played Bishop E6 here as well
I'm just reversing the order it really
doesn't matter Bishop E6 Knight G4
tomato tomato we're playing Knight G4
first and then taking but don't go
Bishop B6 here don't get too fancy
because if you play Bishop E6 here white
can actually take the Knight
and you might say oh but in the in the
resulting exchanges we take the Rook on
F1 yeah but you still lose material you
go from being a piece up to being only
an exchange up which is a rook for a
piece that's a an absurd exchange you
shouldn't do that take the bishop first
and now white is aiming at F7 which is a
little bit annoying what's also annoying
is that we haven't completed our
development still let's do that now with
Bishop E6 High reward low risk move now
our pieces are finally out and we can
proceed to the final stage which is
essentially now converting our extra
piece into something tangible when I say
something tangible normally what I mean
as I said before is either we force a
favorable exchange of Queens making the
extra piece easier to convert or okay
that's gonna actually be what's
happening if the queen had moved to A4
we would have gone for checkmate with
Rook D2 and we would have achieved
Checkmate there pretty quickly I'll show
you after the game of course now if we
wanted to keep the Queens on the board
if you were itching to play for attack
you should go Queen G6 but why would we
do that we have a very nice Queen trade
and if you look a little bit deeper we
can follow this queen trade up with an
even more powerful move what am I
talking about
and I know some of you are probably
going to say Bishop C4 a good move a
good move but not the best move Bishop
C4 there is Rook F2
and if you go Bishop H4 in that position
white can block with G3 so you can't win
a second piece here instead what you can
do is win another pawn and infiltrate
the second rank with a rook Rook D2 and
this is where I think our opponent is
likely to resign
because we're just starting to win
everything
yeah Rook D2 I'm in Bishop G5 also was a
decent move but then the king would have
slid up to defend the pawn so we can't
really win E3 just yet
but Bishop G5 is something that we
should keep in mind as a way of
attacking another weakness
this is just totally nasty so for
example why does okay Knight C3 never
mind I was going to say that in response
to Rook F2 we would have played Bishop
G5 but Knight C3
well
um
I guess our opponent's idea is to meet
Rook take C2 with Rook to F2
but I'm more than happy to trade Rooks
right we're continuing to trade and
continuing to take free puns the
conversion here is really
straightforward
and if white plays let's say Rook a to
B1 then we can still bring our other
Rook into the game with Rook d8 or even
Rook B8
and okay the White's position just
collapses on all seams falls apart
everywhere and you know we have a nice
trick here
the reason I like the move Rook to B8 is
because we're setting a vicious trap on
top of attacking B2 after Rook B8 I
think our opponent will be very likely
to play Rook F2 and notice that the Rook
on B8 aligns the Rogue switch always
means tactics Rook F2 Rook takes C3 and
because White's Rooks are now disjointed
that move works so this is something I
talked about earlier incorporating
tricks into your play making moves that
are good anyway but those moves also
happen to set traps right that's the
best way to be tricky right you're not
making a move specifically because it
sets a trap you really only should do
that in a lost position when there's no
hope here this is a good move on its own
because it attacks B2
and once B2 is captured we're going to
have these C pawns are going to turn
into past Pawns but also it happens to
carry a trap which our opponent falls
into there we go and that's the second
piece
yep we read him like a book
like an open book
that was cool that was a cool moment
Rook takes C3 very simple but this
should finally tip him over I think
toward resignation
and still still we're in the realm where
a lot of games are decided and
unfortunately by one move blunders I
mean this is unfortunate because it
doesn't give us a chance to to Showcase
certain principles but we will get there
I mean we're only 1478 there's like
hundreds of points ahead of us
and I think when we hit like high 1500s
low 1600s we're gonna get a lot more
games where
you know our opponents basically don't
blunder all game long we've already had
a couple of those games okay let's
finish the job in style essentially when
you're up this much material I've
already said this before the actual
simplest approach normally is going to
be to take upon and and promote to a
queen don't play for mate with your
Bishops just choose a pawn to take take
it and then promote the corresponding
Pawn so the two possible moves here are
Rook to A1 and Rook to C1 and both of
them do the exact same thing we're gonna
play Rook to see one because this Pawn
is already further advanced
notice that if white plays Rook to B2
which I think our opponent is very
likely to play we actually don't even
need to react we can just play Rook
takes Pawn
and we can cover Rook B8 with Bishop to
f8
there we go just of course something
that we had to do and if you you had
been worried you should have played G6
or something which was also totally fine
this is not a mate
Rook B7 okay don't go King f8 because
then Rook B8 check actually forces you
to give up a bishop
do we care about the spawn no
just go back
and don't go Bishop G5 that gets mated
okay so if I was really
um you know and now we push our Pawn if
I was trying to be super clinical I
would recommend most players to make
Luft right so maybe even before playing
Rook C1 you play G6 or H5 just so that
you don't have to worry about it
especially in the context of a Time
Scramble now what's the most clinical
move here white wants to take on C6 and
delay the progress of our sleep on and
this is the great thing about doubled
pawns and end games when both of the
pawns are passed what you can do is use
one of them as a shield for the other
this is a well-known end game principle
I talked about this in my Pawn ending
videos where you use the the back Pawn
as a shield uh preventing let's say an
opponent's piece from caching it now we
get our own Rook behind the pawn of
course we need to prevent its progress
and we are finally ready to play C3
simple straightforward technique of
course technically white can get his
Rook behind the pawn but that's not
going to last very long we're just going
to use one of our Bishops to attack The
Rook wherever it is and keep pushing it
back
yeah this is an umbrella kind of
construction of course we have a great
luxury that we have an extra Bishop
that's whose only role is protecting the
pawn on C5 the pawn on C4 really getting
like the absolute VIP treatment and if
you want like a VIP move here we have an
even better move well no oh yeah when we
do we haven't bet we have a better move
than C3 what is it like if you really
want to shut down all avenues of counter
play you want to play like a GM what's
the move that you play here Rook A3 to
B3 we don't let our opponent infiltrate
or infiltrates the wrong word it's the
reverse uh get back to the first drink I
should say and of course you should
briefly examine Rook takes B3 C takes B3
A5 but black wins the pawn race B2 A6 B1
equals Queen and even if it didn't win
the pawn race we could use our Bishop to
stop the pawn we could even use the
other Bishop to stop the pawn
so plenty of options there
and The Rook of course cannot go to D7
because the bishop controls that square
so white actually has no way to stop the
C Pawn it's over
pretty five fed yeah Rook B3 is a nice
little cute little move finishes the
game in style
okay this is where her opponent should
resign
be a good boy and resign
okay Rook a seven
well we keep on pushing C3
C2 of course we're watching the pawn but
it's it's nowhere near promotion so we
can just make a queen and then and now
we go for mate right now the threshold
has been crossed we go for mate and the
easiest way to do that here is Queen
takes E3 notice that move setting up a
ladder and we use the ladder to give a
check on G3 drag the king back to the
first Rank and made him made him on B1
the reason I'm spelling this out is
because a lot of players are actually
not very good at delivering that final
blow if you remember my lessons with
Charlie moist critical if you don't know
what I'm talking about and you're
watching on YouTube you can check it out
on my channel Charlie actually had a
huge problem as a beginner with this he
like everything was great let's give a
check by the way and then we'll take the
rook and go back for mate everything was
great you know the conversion was fine
and then when he got to a situation
where he had like two queens or a queen
and a rook he actually had a ridiculous
amount of trouble actually mating his
opponent so it's always good to kind of
just make sure that you have the process
down
all right
so that was a straightforward game that
was marred by our opponent's one move
blunder in the opening but nonetheless
we once again faced the the battler
attack and we responded to it in uh kind
of textbook fashion just like we had
previously now you might remember from
the previous speedrun video that we
carefully considered castles and Knight
F6 and here after rookie one I was
showing you this line Knight takes C4 in
response to D3 I think we had planned D5
and in all of these cases black is a
nice position thank you for the subs
Tobias crowd lead Loaf and say tangerine
starting a hive train damn girl
so Knight C3 is really no different I
should point out as I did during the
game that after E5 I think nifa
mentioned this there is the very nice
move D5 and a concept that should be
familiar to you from the scotch gamut
you might say well I don't get it what
where should it be familiar from the
scotch Gambit is D4 he takes D4 and
Bishop C4 and here the main line goes
Knight F6 white plays E5 and you have
the same construction black plays D5
right advancing upon it to the center
counter-attacking the bishop yet another
opening in which this occurs is the
trumpowski so in the trompowski there is
a line that I kind of play with black
which is super rare does anybody know
and I'll be impressed if anybody can
remember the move that I tend to play
here with black this is a rare move it's
not the main move but it's a very
interesting sideline what is it
it's not F6 no it's not E5 not
immediately it's not G5 it's Knight C6
Vince Vance got it is Knight C6 now
Knight C6 looks absurd because you're
not moving any pawns and it looks like
White's just gonna go D5 and force the
Knight back to V8 but black is already
better again you have this bishop on F4
you have the Knight on C6 and Black's
move is E5 the same concept just in the
mirror image of it and if white takes
then black takes and black is in great
shape here
and if white moves the bishop bully is
nowhere good to move it because if
Bishop G3 we can take it and the Knight
moves back to E7 by the way a square
that was carved out by the movie five so
uh so anyways this this trick exists in
many different openings so it shouldn't
come as a surprise to you E5 D5 and if
white takes the Knight we take the
bishop
and what's interesting about this
position is that Black's Pawn structure
is quite damaged but it's minus plus
according to the engine
and there's there's a couple of uh
factors that dictate why first of all
black is a big lead in development black
is the bishop pair the pawn on C4 may
seem like a liability but it's actually
a great strength it is essentially
preventing white from putting D from
playing D3 it's sitting on White's
position like an elephant if white plays
D3 we we take on D3 and leave white with
a dreadfully weak Pawn that we can
easily attack by playing B6 and Bishop
A6 if we wanted to attack it we could
also Play Bishop B7 aiming at the long
diagonal there is no light scored Bishop
for white we have an open G file you can
kind of see where this is going
so just another illustration that pawn
structure is not the most important
factor in the vast majority of positions
um
somebody asked what if on Passat well
then we just take back and again we have
a lead in development in a very nice
position and from the earlier speedrun
video you might remember that these
types of positions are not very good for
white because white has no easy way to
push D4 and essentially liberate his
pieces because of the typical trick at
the end of the line we of course have
the bishop H2 and queen takes Queen
trick okay so uh so white has to
restrict themselves to D3 and here for
example we play B6 and fiancado the
bishop and our pieces are very nicely
cooperating all of them aiming at the
king side black is slightly better here
uh the Greek FDI is not far away either
so E5 is not scary our opponent plays
actually very decently I thought Bishop
B5 and here there was a fork in the road
so I think we played perhaps the best
move Bishop E7 but I was also pointing
out that we can take on e4 and
ultimately the reason I rejected this
move is because after D4 Queen D1 King
D1 I think I would maybe even prefer
black after Bishop to D7
but the problem is that after D4 white
can actually start by playing Bishop
takes C6 and now play either D4 or 94
and this version of the end game I
actually like a lot less because in the
end game the role of Pawn structure
becomes a lot more important right when
the Queens are off the board you're no
longer as focused on tactics you're now
focused on positional factors and here
the pawn structure is quite significant
whereas the fact that white has lost
castling rights with the Queens off the
board is not that significant
so
D4 I don't particularly love and instead
we go Bishop B7 and of course if D4 you
should remember this trick you should
remember that this wins the bishop but
white can start with the Intermezzo
Bishop C6 and Knight back to E2
um and Bishop D6 yeah is also not
playable because of course white has E5
that's important to point out forking
the bishop and the Knight and the fact
that the Knight is pinned does not allow
you to take on E5 okay so Bishop E7 is
fine Knight E5 and queen to C7 so here I
actually remembered from our previous
analysis a very interesting line well
Queen F3 it's a shame that our opponent
did it did this that early it really is
because after Bishop F4 we would have
gotten into some very interesting
complications
so after Bishop D4 we have the move
Bishop to D6
and white responds by playing Knight
takes C6 so here a critical moment we
have a choice the simple move is just BC
obviously which leads to a very nice
position for black this Center
it's so compact the bishop on A4 is out
of the game we have the B file we have
the prospect at some point of pushing E5
we can even do that here and opening up
the bishop I would say that black is
slightly better here but
we have another very interesting
possibility which sounds absolutely
crazy people are super afraid of
discover checks and you shouldn't be
right because in many cases discover
checks are not all that dangerous the
best move is just Bishop takes Bishop
here
now it looks absurd because first of all
white can play Knight takes A7 check and
win the pawn with check but we'll get to
that in a second why does no other good
checks if white drops back
and forces the king to move and then
drops back you can't stop calculating
here black wins a piece black simply
wins a piece by trapping this bishop B5
Bishop B3 and now c4
okay and the same goes for any other
Knight Retreat white actually has to
play Knight A7 but now we block the
check with Bishop D7 and if you keep
calculating
Bishop takes Bishop
Queen takes Bishop not Knight takes
Bishop which allows the Knight to go
back with Tempo and after Knight ab5
what is Black's moves move well the
knights are connected so you attack the
base Knight and the line still doesn't
end white drops back to E2
counter-attacking the bishop
we take the Knight black takes the
bishop but at the end of this line
what's very important is that we can
take on B2 and by taking on B2 we are
ruining White's Queen side structure and
black is clearly better here
so crazy long line all of this is
essentially forced kind of a cool line
if you think about it like all of this
is forced from Bishop D6
takes here here here here here here
if the other Knight goes to B5 we have
the sexy move Bishop B8 trapping the
knight in the corner look at that move
Bishop F4 back to ba trapping the Knight
on A7
so cool stuff
um Gary asks why not King f8 well then
Knight takes Bishop Knight takes Bishop
is a nice bailout option so we actually
have to remove the Bishop from the
knight's grasp
takes takes here here attacking the
Knight Knight moves and attacks the
bishop Queen takes Knight takes Queen
takes and black is slightly better so
actually that would have been how we
would have responded to Bishop F4
instead our opponent plays Queen F3 and
now Bishop F4 D4 nice move now something
I was going to point out after Knight
takes E4 uh Queen takes B2 leads to
unnecessary complications it's still
winning for black right when I say
unnecessary complications I don't
necessarily mean that it's bad but watch
this line Knight takes F6 check Bishop
F6 Queen takes C6 Jack and suddenly it
appears that black is in quite a bit of
trouble and the engine indicates a
ridiculous a ridiculous move in this
position it's the only winning move in
this position everything else is a draw
because if you move your king up you're
walking into a nasty check like this
what's the move
yeah Bishop D7 sack both Rooks but it's
temporary because we do the same thing
to White super cool line Queen takes a
eight King eight now there are no checks
here Bishop D6 doesn't do anything so
white has no choice but to take the
other rook and now it's our turn Queen
A1 and queen H1 and When the Smoke
Clears we are simply up a bishop
but who in their right mind would want
to orchestrate these complications when
we have the simple move Queen to D5
which there's nothing wrong with and in
the events of a trade the pawn protects
the Queen the pawn protects the Knight
the queen intercepts White's Queen from
attacking C6 and if white plays C4 here
I'll just Queen back to D7 big deal we
walk into a pin this pin is totally
innocuous because the pawn protects the
Knight
so
this would be a good example of managing
a risk but after the queen H5 the game
is essentially over everything here is
very straightforward Bishop C6 BC
Castle's E5 nice move opening up the
diagonal for the bishop and after Bishop
E3 a little bit of surgical Precision we
start with Rook d8 to chase the queen
away now we play Knight G4 so that white
is forced to take with a pawn and
finally we get our Bishop out to E6 now
Queen A4 was nominally more resilient
and here I think the winning move is
just Rook to D2 infiltrating to the
second Rank and if white gobbles up the
pawn I think we have a pretty tactic
here with Rook takes G2 check this is an
example of something that you can
actually calculate out until the end so
it's not really unnecessary see here you
can calculate until the end and it's
quite easy
because if white goes to the H file at
any point you have Bishop D7 take C6
this wins the queen this is a dangerous
Discovery if King F2 then we send the
other Bishop forward dragging the king
back because the diagonals are
controlled and now we Checkmate the King
on G2 so it's all very straightforward
to calculate here we go Queen G4 and we
Checkmate white in the other order
Bishop H4 so this would be a nice way to
end the game
okay Queen A4 Rook D2 maybe white has
Rook F2 but then I think the simplest is
just to take and get the other rook and
put it on D2 and perhaps even do the
same thing
so pretty straightforward lines in the
event of the queen trade we infiltrate
we take the pawn we play Rook V8
attacking the other pawn and the game
ends after Rook takes C3
okay jruby7 asks how do you know it's
good slash bad to let your opponent
capture with their pawn and open up
their Rooks file yeah so that's a good
point right so there are situations
where you're actually trying to take
back with a pawn and open up your Rooks
file and maybe the most like standard
example of that is in the Italian let's
get just like a random Mainline Italian
blah blah blah this is just sort of a
town where both sides actually have this
idea
and the idea that I'm talking about in
the abstract is the move Bishop to E3 so
if you know the Italian you will know
that this structure is incredibly
popular precisely because White's trying
to open up the f file for his rook and
black often does the same thing and
sometimes white says no no no I'm not
giving you the f file I'm moving my
Bishop back
so of course whether you want to allow
your opponent to open up a file depends
first of all on how much you're damaging
their Pawn structure as a result right
so that could for example outweigh the
concession you are making right because
you're usually making a concession if
you're allowing your opponent to open up
a file but in the case of this game
white was already down a piece there was
no pressure on F7 and so we did it
without a second thought in the night or
there's a variation where white kind of
makes that type of concession but he
makes it because there's a concrete
follow-up idea so watch this Knight F3
uh or sorry what am I doing A6 first uh
Bishop to E3 E5 Knight F3 and there is a
variation where black plays Bishop E6
and white goes Knight G5 white goes
after the bishop and after Bishop E7 the
best move here is actually to take the
Knight to take the bishop and you might
say well I'm giving my opponent the f
file after he castles and that's true
but the pressure on the pawn on E6 here
is so immense that it's worth giving
black the f file also even if black
manages to Castle which is not a given
the pod on F2 is incredibly well
protected by the bishop and black is no
other pieces on the king side so it
really is a case-by-case decision but
you should always ask yourself okay is
it necessary to trade and does my
opponent actually have anything that
they can do based on the file that opens
up right you should try to think
concretely about it I know that's not a
satisfying answer but it is you know
it's a starting point
in the fantasy variation black also
accepts an open f file and often that
comes back to Biden
thank you again to those who subscribe
and keep this channel alive I really
appreciate it
um subbing to my YouTube also really
helps
we will continue the grind
after vacation I will be back in early
January
so my next stream I assume will be
January the 4th at in the evening
and I will be back on the full grind
thank you everybody for hanging out have
a good New Year and Christmas
happy holidays and I'll see you all soon
bye
[Music]
